numrows=  808
num entries =  648
Encode the corpus. This might take a while
Start clustering
Clustering done after 0.17 sec

Cluster 1, #648 Elements 
	 
	 Fox High School runs right along the south and west side of the Meramec River.  So flooding can greatly affect this school's families.  Much of this community is in the city of Arnold where as its sister high school. Seckman. has a less dense population.
	 Green Park is in the Lindbergh School District, which is a draw for many families with kids. Mostly single family homes. There are many businesses on Lindbergh Blvd. further north in Affton. Green Park has its own industrial park and is very self-sufficient. 
	 Largely African American community, concerns about crime, public school, 
	 Saint Louis can be (IMO) roughly divided into a few large areas. Downtown, South City, The Central Corridor, and North City. This is South City.
	 This is the nearest town with a gas staion and where the kids go to school there is no grocrie store but this is my community and my town.
	 This is my Union Community, the places we work, shop, and gather. This is a working family community that needs representation that fights for their rights. 
	 Sparsely populated, large land owners-private and federal.
	 This map is designed in regards to the newest Jefferson City School districts. In 2018 Jefferson City built a new high school on the south west side of the town that broke away from the old population that was largely on the east side of the town. This map is more sprawling into the surrounding towns and counties because Jefferson City High School used to have the largest population in the state, thus Holts Summit, Wainwright, and Tebbets were all apart of the districting. Thus, the important conversations that need to happen in the community are in regards to things like high way health, to get into the population center that is Jefferson city, as well the health of the high school. For this part of the state Jefferson City is the hub of commerce and work, mainly either agricultural or state government work. Therefore, including all of these small towns in this map is incredibly important for representation at the state level. 
	 This is an area with ample outdoor space for children and adults alike. I see familiar people almost anytime I venture outside. The grocery store is frequented by neighborhood residents and is the kind of place where cashiers recognize me and my family. This community is walkable and boasts numerous local shops and restaurants.
	 Monroe City residents currently live in multiple counties and state senate districts. Residents care about transportation and commodity prices.  Residents go to Hannibal for most services 
	 Small Local Shops and Outlets, employs a lot of local people
	 This is includes spaces, resources, places I often visit in my community of SD 4&5. 
	 This area is primarily Mennonite farm country. Several turkey Cafos with cattle grazing and row crops of corn and soy beans.  Several different communities depending on which church you go to.
	 - Diverse area with people from all racial, socioeconomic, sexual orientations, ages
- Living by the Botanical Gardens & Tower Grove Park we have a lot of visitors from around the state & even out of state.
- Some of the highest city voter turnout in my neighborhood (Ward 8) and across Tower Grove Park (Ward 15)
- Very Civic minded residents; active in the community. 
- Home values have consistently risen over 20 years
- 
	 The small town of Kimmswick is mostly little retail shops in the old town area near the river.  This community is in a flood zone of the Mississippi River and access to the town has been closed several times in the last few years. Now many shops are closing.  The economy of this area is shaky at present.  People come long distances to eat at the famous Blue Owl restaurant.
	 People who live and work in these areas are connected strongly to the Springfield downtown area. There are numerous community events that happen in the vicinity that people are able to walk to that really binds the area together. Some of these are ArtsFest, Events on the Square, Cider Days, and MSU Events. In addition there are a lot of eateries in these areas that we all frequent. While other people will drive in the close connection with these businesses and events drives people into wanting to live and work in these locations.  
	 I live in a very small township right out side of Senath MO. The township is called Caruth I consider the two smallest and closest towns in the Area Senath and Hornersville both my area. My township has a Kennett address but our kids go to school at Senath so Senath is my community. 
	 The Yellow portions of the city can be considered old Jefferson City. The East side of town includes the historic down town and state capitol. This side of town is older, and is expanding less currently. 

	 Beasley Elementary is in the Mehlville SD and has a 50% free and reduced lunch rate among the students.   The elementary school boundary includes most of Jefferson Barracks
	 Our diverse community that resonates the working class.
	 This area contains small rental older homes and an affordable housing unit with approximately 35 apartments.  Many of the residents are physically handicapped .
	 The population was 11,494 at the 2010 census.
	 Middle class. Mostly homeowners. Some apartments. Primarily white but still a mix of white & black folks. 

Lots of folks go to the dog park & trails. Very few sidewalks -- very car heavy. No public transit. Tons of dump truck traffic on creasy springs. Good amount of public workers and building trades. 


	 Potosi--Working in Law enforcement throughout this area, I was met with a lot of racism as a Black officer. There is a prison in the area and the Black community grew as people moved closer to visit their incarcerated family members. However, they then moved out of the area because the racism is so bad. The KKK is still active in this area and it is a hard place for minorities and LGBTQ folks to live. 
	 The Grain Belt Express is the area that is being offered as a path for high-voltage electric lines to pass thru Missouri.  This is a rural community and these lines will go over mostly fields.  Many in the community do not want these lines to be on their land and do not want to allow access across their land to get to where the electric lines will run.  Assistance with map from Kenneth Dunlap.
	 It's very important for me to be settled where I am. Travel is difficult and relying on my family to transport or come to my aid god forbid is very important. This a very common set of issues in my community especially, remaining in our comfortable living but connected to more of the core of St. Joe for shopping and leisure. 
	 Rural areas of St Charles County, some areas subject to flooding. Primarily farmland and other agricultural use
	 This is a working class area filled with students, young professionals and longtime residents. It's a walkable neighborhood that has been an affordable place for a cross section of young and old folks to live. Folks share open spaces, like the Westport high school well and have a real attachment to not seeing these spaces overrun by developers. There is certainly a shared interest/fear in seeing the community remain affordable and liveable. 
	 These are people who would benefit from the widening of I-470 to accommodate heavy traffic that is significantly more these days.
	 middle to upper income, mostly homeowners. Concerns include education (both public K-12 and university), climate change, recycling, and gun violence.
	 This community is a diverse community of adults, children, and the elderly. It is also diverse racially and ethnically. Class wise, this community is mainly composed of working class individuals, service workers, and those that work minimum and low wage jobs. Since many inhabitants are working class workers, many are only able to rent opposed to owning property. #mojwj 
	 This part of southwest Kansas City includes quiet neighborhoods with ranch-style homes, an increasing number of apartments, shopping areas and Burns&McDonnell global engineering company. Bordered by I-435 on the south, State Line Road on the West, Holmes on the east and 85th Street on the north.
It seems to be transitioning from an older population of home-owners to younger and more diverse owners and renters. 
	 People to live, shop, and work in the area, including restaurants, food stores, and hospitals.
	 mix of owner and rental housing, neighborhood schools, MSU students and faculty, moderate income,
	 This district houses Kansas City's City Hall, the Jackson County Courthouse, KCPD Headquarters, the Jackson County Detention Center, and the Charles Evans Whittaker United States Courthouse. There is a lot of traffic, both through vehicles as well as in person in this district. From paying your taxes, to protesting, to meeting with your elected officials, it all happens in this district. The common interest of this district would be government, public safety, and accessibility by the community. 
	 Communities with easy access to Pharmacies
	 Mixture of income, race and age. With lack of equity as far as housing, education, health, economic and jobs availability and wages. Quite a fluctuation in quality of life and sustainability. 
	 *Aging infrastructure
*Becoming increasingly a retirement town
*Commuter community
*Public School
*Good deal of income comes from tourism 
*Mostly outdoor recreation (hunting, fishing, boating)
*Little or no industrial work
*Some agribusiness
*Most HS graduates leave for better paying jobs in other cities
	 Columbia economic district. People in this area depend on the Columbia area for jobs, health care, etc. 
	 The district is comprised of voters ranging from wealthy (Wildwood) to upper middle-class (Chesterfield and Ballwin) to middle-class  and lower middle-class (Eureka and Fenton). Of course, elements of all four categories are found throughout the district.
	 Palmyra is a strong and vibrant rural community largely centered around the local public schools. Many residents work in farming-related jobs, light manufacturing,  the service sector, health care, and education. 
	 This is Kirksville MO, a small farming community, with one of Missouri's most esteemed colleges, Truman State. The population of Kirksville on average is about 17-18 thousand people with roughly 4600 students who flock to the town every fall. The community serves as the hub of North East Missouri mainly because there isn't much out there. Kirksville is surrounded by Micro communities that head to town to shop, sell their goods, and do things such as go to the doctor etc. 
Kirksville could be considered a poster child for rural MO, as it struggles with vast poverty, and is the hub of health care and education for this part of the state. What can be understood as a healthcare desert, is the locale of North East MO, Kirksville does have a hospital and an urgent care but many of the micro towns must come to Kirksville to receive this treatment. 
	 This community is the downtown area of Boonville and immediate surrounding rural areas. South of Windsor Place the census tract area I only intended to include the area down Hwy 87 north of Prairie Home. Prairie Home has it's own school district and community pool which separates it from many of the community services in Boonville. The people living in this area use the tax payer supported community pool and the local school district. The community also has most of the basic retail needs including groceries and home goods (Walmart). 
	 concerned about children education, school district and hospitals.
	 Low income individuals and families living in Howell county who depend on monthly allotments of food from the MUNCH food pantry in Willow Springs.  Changes to funding by the state and federal government could affect the program.  
	 My community is primarily made up of middle-class families and young renters. My community's primary concerns would revolve around school funding, tax benefits for low to middle class families, and investments to improve the city. Some important topics of discussion would pertain to funding for improving public spaces, schools, and transportation.
	 A geographical representation of the "Historic Northeast District" encompassing a unique, un-segregated, and largely immigrant community. Without community knowledge here, very important immigrant communities, their homes, businesses, churches, community centers, etc could easily be unrepresented. Tight cultural communitys live here. Notably the area just East of the Rivermarket is a tight Vietnamese neighborhood who live, eat, and work here. Without being aware of this, it would be very easy to combine their geographic district into "power and light" luxury apartments. This neighborhood in the western portion of THIS map is stronger and properly represented if combined with the rest. If combined with power & light, their representation & community needs would be fully washed out.
	 Raytown is a working class and racially mixed community. Some issues the community needs to have addressed are poorly maintained roads, lack of sidewalks, and lack of street lights that affect the walkability and traffic safety in the community. Additionally, the lack of inclusion in the school district is a big issue. The leadership of the school districts and Raytown's city council is almost all white. The curriculum seems to be stuck in the 1970s (when Raytown was founded and was a mostly white community). The school district and it's curriculum need to evolve with the times and reflect the current day community. Teachers also need to be paid better and given more resources to support them and their students. 
	 Many have moved here into town they are transient  and have simular values
	 My neighborhood does not go south of 49th St. although the census district does. West Plaza has been a neighborhhood of mostly middle class bungalows. Many of the units are rentals. but not all. In the last few years the neighborhood has become more racially diverse which has been very positive. Unfortunately developers are coming in and buying up houses as teardowns. They build new houses distinctly out of character with the neighborhood. The houses are built to all the setbacks and have garages that face the street. Thus far, the people that are buying these very expensive houses are not becoming part of the neighborhood as they don't have to interact when they are coming or going. The affordable housing is being replaced and the people are pushed out. The county is not helping as they increased real estate taxes far beyond the 15% allowable by state law. The developers are not paying real estate tax at the same rate, as they are assessed after the teardown and before the new house is built. Sometimes they do not pay any real estate tax. They are creating infrastructure problems without increasing density and the idea of community is only for PR purposes. 
	 This map includes the region of Missouri that all of these areas fall into an economic region that all work together for jobs and economy.
	 People in the highlighted area that need emergency room care generally have to be transported to the Rolla Hospital
	 New Upper Income Homes being built in this area
	 East part of the Holland Neighborhood, bounded on all sides by arterial roads for an obvious boundary. Mostly middle-class, fairly ethnically diverse with a good mix between the young, generally MSU students, people with families, and older retirees. With a main bike and walking trail going through the district, there is heavy pedestrian traffic, people tend to know each other. Mc Daniel Park and South Creek trail along with the bike trails give the neighborhood a definite feel and identity. 
	 Centralia proper. These folks live in & around Centralia & Hallsville. These folks work in blue collar/factory work primarily -- working at Hubbell in town. This is a community of folks who have been primarily supported by Hubbell (what used to be called AB Chance) sincerely the early 1900s. They have a strong tradition of collective bargaining that dates before the passage of the NLRA. 
	 Orchard Farm School District
	 I live and work in this area - as well as friends, shopping, local activities. Everything is within 30 mins of me since I live in the center and move outwards for different reasons,.
	 suburban area, people commute to work all over the metro, diverse age wise but mostly white racially
	 The Crossroads District hosts a vibrant and talented artist community. This district houses Union station, local artists, as well a couple of apartment buildings. A lot of tourist come through this district as well. This is currently the south stop for the Kansas City Street, but the beginning of the Main Streetcar Extension line to the Plaza. The common interests of this community is transportation, the streetcar, and construction. 
	 Concerned about increase in crime,  gunshots, housing values and inability to get mortgages or home improvement loans.  Concerned about schools.
	 Fort Zumwalt North High School
	 Working and middle class community near William Christman high school. Community is near parks and green space and has restaurants nearby along 24 and 291 that the community frequents. 
	 #MRCC - Map of Cole County Economic area.  People coming into Cole County for jobs, education, economic activity
	 Lots of residents have to drive outside of the community to get to work--people rely on the street car to access restaurants, businesses and arts and culture. Mostly white collar community wanting cool apartments in the city. 
	 Belle, Bland, Surrounding areas highlighted - all of these communities have to travel to Owensville if they want to get to a Walmart so that they can get basics without going to half a dozen different stores for household staples. Lots of cattle farms and row crops with small communities peppered throughout. Mostly owner occupied. lots of generational ownership (multiple century farms)
	 I receive my basic healthcare from Hedrick Medical Center in Chillicothe.

Hedrick does a great job meeting the needs of the community to  the degree that a small community hospital is capable of.

There is also a public health center in Chillicothe that provides flu/COVID shots, blood draws, WIC services and other services provided to the public including low income citizens.
	 All residents are in the Mehlville School District. Oakville Elementary is the public elementary school, although many families attend St. Francis for church and school. Mostly middle-class - mostly home owners, families and a lot of kids, as well as senior citizens. The bus runs along Telegraph, but most people drive their cars.
	 This area is referred to as the Medical Mile in Springfield. This stretch of community is where the two largest hospitals and their smaller clinics also reside providing patients access to all aspects of medical care. 
	 These two communties are dependent on each other.
	 Fort Zumwalt West High School
	 Black and white neighborhood with a growing number of Black residents. There are a number of black families in the area. The White residents have mostly been in this area for some time. There are new businesses popping up. 
	 Very few places in Polk county has high speed fiber access.
	 Gladstone is an older community but is starting to change as original residents age out. The area is mainly blue collar/working class. It is a community situated within higher income areas and, particularly to the north, there are wealthier areas that can be kind of uppity. 
	 Sidewalks in the towns are in dangerous condition.  Needs improvement for safety.
	 not much to do here also needs attention on the map its incorrect and the population is incorrect
	 Communities without easy access to Medical Facilities
	 Regional area that surrounds Mark Twain National Forest and relies on the Forest as an economic hub, through jobs and tourists. 
	 Mansfield Hartville Healthcare
	 St. Charles School District
	 Midtown houses a lot of Kansas City's residence. This district is important because there is a lot of traffic from the community as well as neighboring neighborhoods. The Midtown Market place is central to Midtown Kansas City. 
	 Encompasses residential areas and business districts that have seen dramatic growth and investment over past 10 years. Residents have shared interest in encouraging continued growth while protecting renters' rights and maintaining the affordability, density and diversity that made these areas thriving and desirable communities.
	 This community in Jefferson County is all along the Mississippi river and must deal with the flooding.  It is divided into two Senate districts  22 and 3.  Small towns close to the river get much damage from the floods.  Assistance from former Jefferson County resident, Chris Honse.
	 The community lacks transportation. It can use flexible transportation that benefits the community
	 This elementary school in Jefferson County has a free and reduced lunch rate of 51%.
	 concerned about children education and taxation, Homeowner's property tax,
	 MSU students/ faculty, Parkview high school, rountree, sunshine elementary schools, mix of renter/ owner occupied housing, park central branch library and schweitzer brentwood branch library, people who work and shop in downtown springfield 
	 Traditionally low-income part of town: mixed income (low-med), longterm rentals, small, single-family/multi-family dwellings, some rent-controlled multilpe units.  Lack of public transportation, cooling center or other climate-related mitigation; roads and sidewalks in poor condition.  
	 Associated Electric Cooperative ran the 
Thomas Hill  coal power plant  on Highway F in Clifton Hill.  Residents are concerned about the health effects from plant emissions. People in this area want better infrastructure and good-paying jobs. Agriculture is the major industry.
	 A highly affluent area that is 2-3x the state avg household income, majority composed of homeowners surrounding the St. Luke's and Maryville campuses. A substantial portion of young professional families. Concerned about taxes, schools, infrastructure, and traffic.  
	 Small town with residents concerned about unstable Internet connections and poor roads. Salt River may cause road flooding on Hwy 54, making it difficult to downtown Mexico from the east side. Many residents work in Columbia or Jeff City. Audrain County Courthouse and Chamber of Commerce have nice meeting rooms.
	 I've moved back recently and really appreciate the ability to live near a central area in town and be a short drive away from my parents. My neighborhood has been very welcoming and I've had a chance to remodel my home to settle in. I see this as a place where I can build a family and community. 
	 This intersection of I-70 and Hwy 54 gets a lot of traffic, both east-west truck traffic and people from St. Louis going to the capitol in Jefferson City.  Several gas stations support the tax base of this area. Agriculture is the primary industry.

	 This map includes areas with high demographics of immigrants and refugees. 

Within the map is also important organizations such as the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, International Institute, and Dutchtown South Community Corp. 

Also within the map are small businesses that are immigrant-owned which are on the South Grand strip, Cherokee strip, and in the Dutchtown neighborhood. 
	 People living in the greater Springfield area with similar interests.
	 Springfield East of 65
	 The population was 475 at the 2010 census.
	 The Kansas City School District serves the youth of the Greater Kansas City area. They have a superintendent and a duly elected School Board that represents the welfare of the community and student body. The issues of public, public charter, and charter education is a contentious issue in Kansas City. 
	 Shifting from homeownership to a rental property area, because rent is a lucrative income in Columbia. That means a lot of things but specifically that the are is becoming more racially diverse. It is still an area that cost more to live in than other areas of Columbia. There is a combination of services covered by the city and county or privatized businesses because parts of it are considered outside of the city's jurisdiction. So there are no recycling stations and trash pickup varies on whether the city or a private company picks it up. Some commericial properties have started  going up but this is largely residential and residents work hard to keep it that way. Our polling place is moved around nearly every election cycle, which is extremely frustrating. 
	 Kansas City is home and the Crossroads/Westport territory is my creative and culinary insporation.
	 Area near Fulton Reception & Diagnostic Center. Prison brings jobs but also unique concerns for nearby residents
	 Largest employer in the area is the Fulton prison & state hospital. Many people drive from outside of town to work there.
	 The Kirkwood School District encompasses the municipalities of Kirkwood, Des Peres, Oakland and Glendale. It is currently split between two Senate Districts - SD 15 and SD 1. Housing is much sought after. Smaller homes are often bought and demolished to build new, bigger homes on the lots. Generally affluent, but with differences of income. Some extremely wealthy pockets and some more modest homes. There are two middle schools, which bisect the district. The district is mostly to the east of 270. Neighboring communities are Crestwood, Frontenac and Warson Woods. 
	 Mostly work in Eldon. Trailers and modular homes around Bishop dr.  numbered streets consist of blighted houses built in the 1920s. All Eldon Schools.  VFW, City works, humane society, recycling center in this area. Most shop at Walmart, Woods and Gerbs not in this location.  Few small farms with cattle and turkey barns.
	 Suburban, mostly single-family homes; mostly homeowners' middle- and professional-class. Springfield addresses but outside Springfield city limits--residents here are affected by Springfield politics but can't vote in Springfield elections (can vote for school board). Main issues: public schools, employment, transportation infrastructure (roads)
	 People who used and work at St. Francis Medical Center.
	 This is a broad map of the general roadways folks in this part of the state travel daily -- this map encompasses the majority of shopping areas, residential areas, and schools folks in Lake Lotawana and Blue Springs regularly visit. 
	 As LS metro becomes more urban and developed, there are community issues of land use, zoning, TIF incentives.  There are impacts on infrastructure and education.  Many issues of property taxes and different sales tax rates.
	 We have been divided as a community we should all be in scott instead we are divided into new madrid
	 This district houses Kansas City's world famous Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art and the Kemper Museum of Contemporary Art. The Kansas City Art Institute also has a big student population that lives in this area. The housing prices are lower around this area before going south to the plaza. Common interests would be public investment into the arts, public safety, and the local arts community.
	 Oakville community of mostly home-owners and support the Oakville School system within the greater Mehlville School District. These citizens share the main Telegraph corridor caring for the businesses and transportation maintenance.
	 An economically diverse community of primarily renters, living in the heart of Springfiel
	 My family is farmers that have lived in Livingston county for multiple generations.

NE Livingston County is comprised mainly of farmers in single family dwellings. 
The shared interests are agriculture issues .

Some economic motors in the community of Chillicothe are the prison, local government, hospital, school district and small manufacturing.
	 Cities of Des Peres, Ballwin, Valley Park, Fenton, Sunset Hills have more in common with neighboring communities in other districts than they do with Kirkwood. They are not as close to arts, local attractions (eg Magic House, Amtrak) and higher educational facilities, and less interest in their support than the residents of the eastern portion of SD 15. Some common concerns are above ground utilities, leaf collection, aging infrastructure with utility outages, an aging population and a need for affordable housing
	 Communities without easy access to Pharmacies
	 Middle class homeowners. Arcadia area. Primarily white. Lot of families sending their kids to Derby Ridge. Kids walk to Derby Ridge. Lots of retirees and families. 

Lots of sidewalks & parks. Folks go to the Oakland park & swimming pool. 

There is a pretty firm dividing line between Smiley Ln -- however -- that the census tract does not adequately cover. North of Smiley is considerably different than south of Smiley. 
	 Plato famously described the Greeks as frogs around a pond. My neighborhood can be apt described as the people gathered about Tower Grove Park. It functions as our community common space, especially during good weather.
	 This is where I see friends, family, church, shopping, doctors, and restaurants. It is cut through by Manchester (100) and the River Des Peres, with the southern end on Gravois (30) and the western end on S. Rockhill Rd. and Interstate 44 on the northern end. 
	 Includes Barnhart and Imperial

suburban bedroom community with numerous subdivisions including Village of Jefferson and Parkton

Shared concerns are crime, traffic congestion and noise from I-55, Windsor C-1 School district
	 Residents have shared interests distinct from the surrounding region, including a shared school district, health department, public safety, and housing authority. Compared with surrounding area, residents tend to be younger, are likely to be less wealthy, and are more likely to rent. They also share vital infrastructure including public transit and utilities.
	 Map of Central High School/ Pipkin Middle School communities - includes Drury University and Commercial Street 
	 Jefferson City being the capitol of the state is a population center for central Missouri. In a community surround by small farming towns, Jefferson City is the closest thing to a metropolis, only next to Columbia, in this region. 

The city is now divided into the east and west in, based on a new school district and a second hospital being built, both within the last ten years. 
	 This map is the western half of Jefferson City Mo and is designed around the Capital City High School, district. Splitting the district into two halves was a significant change in the community as it was one of the biggest city projects in decades, it has drastically altered the land scape of Jefferson City and its infrastructure. The west end now encompasses far more communities on the outskirts of the city and thus more people have a stake in the happenings within the city limit. As the school district now extends out into center town Missouri. About half an hour out. Thus, investing in the roads and highway system is a critical issue for these communities. As well is flood protections being that the community travels along the river. 
	 This region surrounds Steelville and relies heavily on the rivers for economic opportunities. 
	 Bierbaum Elem is in Mehlville SD and has a free and reduced lunch rate at 49%.   These are mostly homeowners and a pocket of renters; and parents within this community may experience trouble meeting their needs and rely on help with childcare, health services, and low-cost groceries.  Forder Elem, Beasley Elem, and Bierbaum Elem are in SD 1, separating these three schools from the senate district that the rest of the Mehlville SD is in.  
	 The Lewis & Clark Monument sits at the west side of this district. This is an active community that's very involved in the community locally. There is a lot of green space in this area as well. Common interest would be income, housing, and downtown investment. 
	 newer integrated community
	 This is a community of Webster Groves, Kirkwood,  Crestwood and Glendale. We all use the shopping areas around Lindbergh and 44 and our communities have smaller independent businesses as well. Kirkwood and Webster share a sports rivalry. All the cities are along the railway and use the Kirkwood Amtrak station. Each community has a mixture of old historic homes and more recent developments. 
	 This area is comprised of residents within the boundaries of the city of St. Louis, Missouri; the residents of this community collectively utilize and support a school system, public safety, public transportation, city utilities, political/legislative functions, etc. 
	 Even though Jackson MO is a smaller town in Missouri, it has a very large school district because it draws from a big area of Cape Girardeau County.  This community wants quality education for their kids to enable them to go anywhere in there future.  Sports are a large part of the school as is music.
	 This area represents the Doniphan and surrounding community which suffered the loss of their hospital in 2018. This impacted the regions' health, but also the regions' economics, as it was one of the larger employers in the area. 
	 The Benton-Stephens neighborhood, where I live. There are plenty of grad students, people of color, and young people. Close to a nice park and downtown Columbia. 
	 North of Smiley Ln is considerably different than south of Smiley lane.

The eastern part of this census tract -- north of Smiley -- is considerably different than the western part. There is a firm line of separation around Derby Ridge Dr between homeowners & renters.

There are lot of retirees throughout the neighborhood. There are a few families and you do see kids playing. The majority of the families are white. 
	 Cattle and Turkey barns. Row crops along the river. Prone to flooding when Bagnell Dam opens the gates to prevent flooding the Lake.  There is a diverse divide between the haves and the have nots. Most shop in Eldon or Osage beach.
	 Includes my home, work, dog walk route, our main grocery stores in the area, Missouri State and downtown Springfield, along with Phelps Grove, Art Museum, the Rountree & Pickwick area which is becoming more and more community around businesses and outdoor activities and festivals; and includes historic walnut where ArtsFest happens. This is what I think of as my community.
	 This is what I think of when some one says they live in Affton. 
	 Popular Boat Launching areas, especially busy on weekends and holidays
	 This is the general area where folks in Blue Springs do grocery shopping, go to school, etc. This includes most business centers, strip malls, etc. that folks in this area frequently visit. 
	 This area contains the most retail shopping.
	 A mix of rental properties and older single-family residences.  Age of community member head of household likely 35-75 yo. Likely even distribution or Hourly/Profesionals/Retired.
Area dependent of proximity to light rail and other public transportation..
	 Immigrants, renters, low-income. concerned about racism, tenant rights.
	 There is growing diversity in this community.  The area is growing in population significantly.  It is a generally middle class area with some working-class people as well.  Most of the housing growth has been driven by apartments or retirement housing.
	 Second oldest incorporated area in Columbia. Common interests include community welfare and affordable housing, diversity, and quality of life concerns. Residents tend to be students, educators, working professionals, and the un-housed. Neighborhood and adjacent areas particularly susceptible to out-of-scale high-end redevelopment. Public transit used sparingly due to proximity to various institutions and businesses.
	 Springfield, MO - rural and religious, mostly Caucasian. Lots of subdivisions, banks and gas stations.
High poverty.

	 Live in a new subdivision of young families and commute to independence for co-parenting and work as a nurse in KC and Independence. 
	 Location of this area is actually the first residential community south of Rt 70 at exit 124
Older neighborhood, houses maintained, neighborhood associations active, lots of families and retirees who raised their families here.
Civic minded. Aware of  each other. Needs and zoning changes updated regularly 
	 This is part of Kansas City is home to me in more than one sense of the word--this area has a community with a culture I connect to. The people here look like me and share the same values. 

Things in my community haven't changed much over the close to 60 years I've lived here and yet have. The area between Troost and Hwy 435 is historically where Black people in Kansas City were confined to due to segregationist housing policies. Still today, Kansas City is racially divided and the East Side is the largest and most central Black community in the city. However, when Black people were allowed to move south of 27th street, our community experienced a dispersement as Black people were lured into the suburbs (and away from themselves) by promises of better schools and safer communities. 

This area has a long legacy of community leaders and we need the city, county, and state governments to start listening to us. Back when I worked for the city planning department, there was an initiative for neighborhoods to make their own neighborhood plans and submit those to the city. While white, affluent communities got what they asked for, Black and poor communities were brushed off. As a result, neighborhoods on the East Side have largely had to get what we need and want for ourselves (And we have! Drive down 51st St and you'll find speed bumps that the community organized to put in after 20 years of asking the city). 
	 Hillsboro is a small town community and is the County seat with the county courthouse and  Hillsboro high school.  City is currently in Senate District  3.  Directly north big still a major part of the community is Jefferson College and Jefferson College is currently in District 22.
	 Fox elementary has 42% free and reduced lunch rate.  It is in the Fox SD.  
Students would be greatly affected by flooding of the Meramec River.  It is mostly homeowners who are likely to experience trouble making a house payment and rely on help with childcare, health services, and low-cost groceries.
	 Communities with police stations nearby. The St. Charles County Police Department provides service to unincorporated St. Charles County and works closely with local municipal police to monitor the county’s eight patrol zones. The division also provides contract patrols in the cities of Augusta, Weldon Springs Heights, St. Paul, Flint Hill, Portage De Sioux, New Melle, and West Alton. Additionally, a full-time officer is dedicated to patrol services in the municipalities of Dardenne Praire and Weldon Spring.
	 People in the Brookside community tend to stay here. Some families have been here for two or three generations, people buy their parents homes to stay in the area or if people move, they tend to move close by. 
Sidewalks are in disrepair in this area and repairs don't happen very quickly here. Brookside shopping area has resisted franchises to keep local business and have a hometown feel to the area.

	 Several large hog and Turkey CAFOs. Also a lot of cattle farms. Mostly Baptist communities. Big hunting communities here as well.
	 This area has an increasing number of people living in older homes who don't have the means or income to fix up their places or to maintain them.  Some of the homeowners are at risk for losing their homes they have spent their whole life paying for.  They are sometimes able to access resources but they are limited many times to the area of the city and they have no means to put any money into it and the resources are not enough.  aging housing stock
	 Mix of owner-occupied and rental housing (in both houses and apartment complexes).  Concerns are access to healthy food (grocery stores and farmer's markets), parks, and walkable / bike-able neighborhoods.  Many residents live, work, and play within this neighborhood during a typical week.  
	 Maryland Heights is a largely middle class community which is about 1/3 renters. Residents tend to work in the sciences, at the casino, or in Wesport Plaza or across the bridge in St. Charles. This is the community where most of the Filipino Americans in St. Louis live. Residents are concerned about housing costs, schools, and infrastructure. 
	 Penn Valley Community College sits in this community and there is a big low-income community here as well. The community is diverse and are active in their community. There is also a big LGBTQ+ population here and there are a number of LGBTQ+ spaces here as well. This community's common interest would be access to affordable housing, development, and the threat of gentrification with the development of main street due to the streetcar. 
	 Chinese Buddhist community center and temple. Hosts health clinics, social gatherings. Attendees live from various parts of the region. 
	 This is a diverse neighborhood racially and age-wise with many community minded people.  The neighborhood is interested in native plant gardening and wants that to be allowed.  The neighborhood does a lot of bartering and helps each other out.  Neighborhood is a mixture of owned homes and rentals.  Storm water control and infrastructure (sewer and street repairs) are important b/c this is an older part of the city.  Often traffic is a problem with people cutting through north-south at high rates of speed.  The neighborhood has a number older homes and many people have restored, repaired, and improved these older properties.  
	 These folks all live within the Lindbergh School District. The district is the main reason people buy homes and raise families in this area. Ensuring that this group has unified representation is critical to securing the long-term health of the district and the families and children that rely on it. 
	 A high density rental area with feeder elementary school to the area high school in close proximity to the only grocery store the Walmart Neighborhood Market. These is lots of foot traffic from neighbors walking to the store and unhoused folks. The park and pool are the   center of the neighborhood. 
	 The rural farming people of this community are burdened with the smell of this operation.  A CAFO brings some jobs but the  side effects on the environment (air and water) include potential contamination of public and private property resources.  Assistance with the map from Kenneth Dunlap.

	 Rural areas of St Charles County, in areas not subject to flooding from major rivers. Primarily wooded and undeveloped.
	 After Kirkwood annexed this African-American community, residents have complained of discrimination and neglect. A TIF project in the 1990s took many homes for development of a retail complex with a popular Target store. Tensions grew after a resident shot and killed several people at Kirkwood city hall in 2008.  This area and This area and a small area west of Kirkwood Road are in SD1 and not SD15 with most of the rest of Kirkwood.
	 A large exburb made up mostly of retired middle class and those who work at the industrial buildings along the river. Has a couple of trailer parks and winding streets.
	 There is only one hospital in Gasconade county. It is the closest hospital to people in the highlighted area and even some beyond.
	 This is the Southern/Eastern part of Cape Girardeau, which is also the area that is more diverse, prodomentaly renter properties, and poorer than the other parts of Cape. The infrastructure in this area is in decline. The people in this area likely care about the alarming levels of poverty, poor school facilities, and infrastructure. 
	  This area is increasingly being developed. Residents are concerned about traffic on Hwy 61.  Mercy Hospital does a good job serving area residents. The main industry is still agriculture.  
	 This is a larger map of how the communities of Lake Lotawana and Blue Springs interact. Blue Springs has larger restaurants, grocery stores, and big box stores where folks from Lake Lotawana regularly shop. This also includes Blue Springs South high school, where many residents of Lake Lotawana attend school.
	 The 2010 census showed the city's population to be 52,575
	 - My home neighborhood in the Hill; while the Hill is often associated with upper middle class Italian families, it is much more diverse than that. Specifically, the blocks I live on are working class people of all sorts of backgrounds

- My church community around Trinity Episcopal Church; we sit on the north block of the central west end, less than one block south of Delmar. So we have all sorts of people coming to our church and to our food pantry, where I have a part time job. The pantry serves lot's of different working class and poor families in the area, including my own. There is a clear divide between the concentration of money and private investment in the Central West End, and the neighborhoods just a block away to the north and east, and we see it every day at the pantry.

- Friends and restaurants I frequent on Cherokee St.; we have been going to a few places on Cherokee St. so much that it feel like part of our community, both the bars on the east end and the Mexican restaurants and stores farther west. Similar to me church community in the CWE, cherokee demonstrates a growing divide between the new money coming into the area and the people who have been there a long time. 

- Close friends living in Southwest Garden & Tower Grove South; We spend a lot of time here, as well. 
	 The population was 5,443 at the 2010 census.
	 Residential 
Many children living in this neighborhood
Several people in the neighborhood work over-night factory jobs
Social neighborhood

	 A commercial and residential strip that constitutes where Asian American small businesses related after the historic downtown Chinatown (Hop Alley) was demolished to make way for a Busch Stadium parking. 
	 Walkwable to the JCC, a community of middle and upper middle class who are concerned about tax and education. Has a higher number of Jewish seniors. 
	 Issues of security and safety are top of mind for people living near the state's only nuclear plant producing electricity. Waste is stored on site and this area is part of the New Madrid Seismic Zone. Many think communication with government officials could be better.  
	 Bounded by the City of St. Louis to the North, Jefferson Barracks and the Mississippi River to the East, Mercy Hospital South to the west, most residents recognize South County Mall as a common landmark. South County includes people from diverse incomes and backgrounds, several school districts and many different religious institutions and schools, including Roman Catholic, Lutheran and Muslim. 
	 Suburban cities where people will commute to Springfield for work
	 Family owned cattle farm operations
	 young single family with 1-2 children, first home and first mortgage
	 I am involved in both the Northland and Kansas City communities (south of the river). The Northland is a suburban area and is comprised of smaller townships. People tend to think in terms of  "what is happening in our neighborhood? how can we improve our neighborhood?" and can at times cling to an identify separate from Kansas City. 

This area is becoming more populated and getting lots of development and additional services added to the area. Some parts of the Northland are also becoming more diverse which can create community tensions as the area is more conservative and not always welcoming to diversity.

	 This map will show  important spaces for trans community in STL. Many of these are places where folks find others  like them. 
	 P
	 This is the Northland Area of Kansas City, Mo.
The areas about the Northland that concern me are about transportation and bike paths.
Even though there are bike paths in various areas of the northland, there are many subdivisions that do not have easy access to the bike paths because of large hills, traffic and no access paths. 
Ford is a large employer in the area, and there is no way to safely ride a bicycle to work as there are no safe access paths to the Ford Plant.
Also, transportation (busses) do not operate frequently on Sundays, enabling Northlanders to travel to the downtown areas.
North Kansas City has no food markets in its downtown area.
	 The towns of Otterville, Smithton, Syracuse and New Lebanon are surrounded by family farmland.  Residents in this general area are 20-40 minutes away from the nearest hospital. Their options are Sedalia, Marshall or Columbia. Because the tax base is minimal in these areas, there are local municipalities increasing the prices of utilities like water and gas to keep the towns running--these increased prices in towns with few jobs cause a considerable burden on the citizens. This area is a food desert--there is not a formal grocery store and there are only a handful of restaurants (one in Smithton, Otterville and Syracuse each) which limits how social people living in his remote area can be with one another. This makes it difficult to attract a younger population into the area. Keeping the towns alive is one of the main struggles these folks face.
	 The Jefferson County Lake community are all the many citizens who live on or very near lakes in this county.  They want their waterways to be protected from industry or over fishing.  Outdoor recreation is important to them.  Assistance with this map came from Chris Honse, former resident and lake-side resident of Jefferson County.
	 Eureka has extensive trails for hiking and biking.  This community want to be able to enjoy a scenic view without the sites and sounds of urban hustle and bustle.  This community is broken between two Senate Dist - 15 and 26. Assistance with this map from Nancy Pawol. 
	 Center City is small neighborhood with a character that is unique to the other neighborhoods around it--both physically and demographically. It is multi-racial and has some very low-income folks in the neighborhood. Houses here are smaller than in the Hyde and Squire Park areas. It has less tree lined streets, more vacant lots, and has not gotten the same level of investment as other areas surrounding it. 

Without the same investment and organizational structure, it's more difficult for the Center City neighborhood to sustain projects in the area like community gardens and orchards. 

People in this community need access to resources, and the community does need investment. However, as the city is developing, this neighborhood is changing, and people here are being displaced. Real estate developers are coming into the area to buy up properties in a good location, and residents here need protections from being priced out of their neighborhood. 

*Northern boundary actually ends at Linwood Blvd
	 This community in Jefferson County and Franklin County is in Senate district 22 and 26.  It includes Don Robinson State Park and nearby conservation area. People living in this community love outdoor recreation activities like hiking and camping.  They will not want their community to be spoiled by lack of care for the land.  Map assistance from Jess Shepherd.
	 Bayer campus and the Danforth Plant Science Center. Many employees live nearby. District is almost evenly split between owners and renters. Residents are concerned about education, and the immigrant families nearby are also concerned about immigration issues. 
	 Wentzville School District
	 UMKC has the Volker campus and the Hospital Hill campus. Both serve undergraduate and graduate students. They district also house the student body in dorms, apartments, and/or homes owned by the university. Common interests would be mental health resources, extra income, and internships. 
	 This community represents where I grew up and places I have my most foundational memories. When I think of my community, I think of places I have been with my family or my friends. I feel comfortable in my community because of it's familiarity. Without my community and the spaces in it I truly don't think I would be the person I am today.
	 The population was 505 at the 2010 census.
	 Eureka is set to be a center for tourism, but the destinations are split between two Senate Dist - 15 and 26.  With Six Flags and the shopping centers in one and the best golf courses in the other district.  Assistance with this map from Nancy Pawol.
	 Mehlville School District is located in south St. Louis County and is divided between two senate districts - 1 and 15.  All the voters here want quality schools.  The community's worries about their school district  have less weight in the legislature because they are a smaller voice in two districts rather than a bigger voice in a single district.  The voters are split between two districts.
	 more edu/income
	 Residents of this rural community around Mark Twain Lake are concerned about flooding this summer. Lake levels fluctuate dramatically, affecting fishing and other tourism. Farmers in this area are worried about commodity prices. 
	 this is where i live & work. nearly exclusively students at mizzou.
	 Commercial and residential Asian business. 
walkable to hospital and school.
	 Sappington elementary has about a 32% free and reduced lunch
	 This is the urban part of the Northland compared to the more rural parts further north.  People identify with the school districts they are a part of.
	 Families with students that attend Eureka High School in Rockwood School District. More than half of the students come from LaSalle Springs Middle School, with a large portion of the rest coming from Wildwood Middle School. The racial makeup of the school is 87.7% white, 6.0% black, and 1.9% Hispanic. Residents value  quality public education.


	 Lindenwood University Community
	 Historic Neighborhood - Homes were built in the late 1800s. Many have been rehabbed and others are in need of repair.
Amenities - Walking paths and parks. Location is close to major highways and Universities.
	 My home, many of my friends, my children's schools, church, work, and most of the places I go for shopping or entertainment are located in the map area, all primarily in central Springfield.  This area contains some of the most important cultural amenities, the two largest hospital systems, and some of the oldest neighborhoods in the city, many of which are historically strong or recently revitalizing.  Many of the city's most engaged neighborhood associations are active in this area. There are some significant social class distinctions, but there seems to be a fairly strong central city identity.  The population here is diverse.   
 
	 Upper income neighborhood. New homes being built. Low crime. New Junior High in the north 
	 healthcare, hospitals, urgent care are all far from the people between Springfield, Lebanon, Houston, and West Plains.  Too many are over an hour away.
	 The population was 65,794 at the 2010 census
	 Cole and Boone County (as well as the City of Columbia and Jefferson City) form a single economic and cultural community. Many people commute from one community to the other, and the cities stand out from neighboring parts of the state because of their concentration of jobs in healthcare, government and education. Transportation facilities, like the City of Columbia's airport in Ashland and the Amtrak station in Jefferson City, are shared by both communities.
	  Mid to low income neighborhood Healthy Food options. Policing concerns and infrastructure

	 Having a local theater where I can participate amongst friends and family located both near a highway and the major downtown area keeps me especially connected. I'm really able to keep myself involved with a number of folks around shared hobbies based on this area. 
	 A struggling school district, mostly minimum wage employment, long-distance commuters, and old infrastructure. 
	 white people 55.29%
Black people 41.6%
hispanic 1,1% 
asian 0.3%
native 0.3%

socioeconomic data (2018)
60% homeowners
40% renters 
	 Schools, Churches and Theater
	 Businesses that sell farm equipments
	 11.54 % black
40% white
45 % hispanic
50% renters
50% home owners
	 Popular summer vacation spot with mix of year-round residences and summer homes around Alpine Lake,  Aspen Lake and several smaller lakes. Many residents rent out their chalets, cabins or condos in the summer.  Home owners around these lakes are more affluent than most rural Missourians and may vote elsewhere.
	 St Charles West High School
	 Walkable to STL County library and Frontenac mall, folks are concerned about education and taxes. 
	 Area includes communities surrounding Scott City who face similar economic situations. This area also lacks a hospital and medical care. Folks from this region travel to Cape. 
	 This community runs into infrastructure issues as far as sewer backflow into their basements. Many residents work for the University of Missouri and a couple are current or former local business owners, along with many working Millennial households. 
	 The population was 14,545 as of the 2010 US Census.
	 Need Road and Street repair.   day care programs for children, more businesses to provide jobs.  No shopping mall.   Drive to Cape to shop. 
.    
	 I am a farmer who lives outside of Armstrong. My area is comprised of mainly farmers in a single family dwellings.
Our shared interests are agriculture issues and roads and bridges and bad internet service.

I buy farm equipment and get repairs and do some grocery shopping in Salisbury and Moberly. These are small rural towns.

I shop in Fayette and get my healthcare services in Columbia.
	 These people will go to Jackson for shopping, entertainment, and restaurants. Pocohantas and Fruitland areas got absorbed into Jackson, so they have Jackson addresses. There is speculation going around that Oak Ridge School district will get dissolved into Jackson because they are getting smaller and smaller. 
	 The St. James community is an area outside of Rolla, that tends to be more affluent than those living in Rolla proper. The region is one of agriculture, but many people live in this area and work in Rolla. 
	 Main drag.  Business along 54 with single family dwellings is the area. Some still in disrepair from the tornado.
	 The area includes the Affton/Crestwood area.  Residents in these areas use Grant’s trail extensively.  Watson Rd runs through the area and used to be home to Crestwood Mall and many other businesses, which have now mostly all closed.  This has left some empty buildings/strip malls and has pushed people further south and into the Kirkwood area to shop. Seems to be a lot of retired residents in this community, but slowly seeing turnover to younger families.
	 People with low income and high percentage of families in rented homes
	 The community of farmers around the Sprock Farm do lots of business with this farm.  Area farmers sell grain to Sprock; sometimes he has better prices.  Area farmers  rent land to the Sprock's.  The Sprocks support the area with additional services like farm labor.  Sprock Influence is about a 10 mile radius from his farm.  Assistance with the map from Kenneth Dunlap.
	 There are 4 Parkway high schools  They are in three different Senate Districts. South HS is in Dist 15. West HS is in Dist 26.  Central HS and North HS are in Dist 24.  By breaking up the school district into so many Senate districts it makes the Parkway community have less influence with their legislator.  The Parkway SD community wants to have quality schools that  prepare their kids for a successful future as contributing citizens.
	 These people live in small towns in Cape County but will go to Cape for their groceries. 
	 This community encompasses Ft Leonard Wood and the Waynesville R6 School District.
	 Outer parts of Springfield are lacking bus service and public transportation or sidewalks and pedestrian paths that allow for people without cars to get to jobs and goods and services.
	 Southeast Springfield surrounding Galloway Trail including Glendale High School, Pershing Elementary and Middle School, Wilder Elem School, and Sequiota Elem School. Many in the neighborhood have a strong interest in walking , running, bicycling, nature, and community preservation and/or sustainability. Twice the neighborhood has sought to prevent development, once by purchasing a vacant tract adjacent to the trail and recently by petitioning an election to overturn a zoning decision (which the court said is unconstitutional). The neighborhood is primarily single family residences, some nearly a century old and most in subdivisions from 1955 to present surrounded by commercial and multifamily properties along Sunshine Street, Battlefield Road, Glenstone Avenue, and US Highway 65 freeway. In the center of the community is a quarry and adjacent industrial area that in the past included agricultural lime manufacturing, a concrete plant,  and a concrete vault manufacturer. 
Adjacent to the quarry is Sequiota Spring and Park and Galloway Village, both stops on the Chadwick Flyer railroad active from about 1910 to 2010. In the last 10 years much of the industrial land has become neighborhood commercial and multifamily residential which is a community center for many and an invasion of traffic and "renters" into the peaceful neighborhood for others. The occupancy rate for both commercial and residential properties remains high and new businesses increase the variety and community gathering places available in the neighborhood.
	 These communities don't have state parks, so they rely on local parks. They are often concerned about insufficient revenue for park needs and recreational activities.
	 Beacon Hill and this district is seeing a lot of devolpment on both sides of Troost Ave. The Beacon Hill area is starting to resemble a neighborhood more and more. Beacon Hill is also seeing a growing number of Black young professionals as well as development on Troost by Black Kansas Citians. Common interests would be community, investment, and community development. 
	 I consider my community to be roughly those residents living near Hickman High School and Columbia College.  This area also encompasses some some of the commercial areas of Business Loop.  Shared concerns include access to affordable housing, quality of public schools, and quality of solid waste municipal services.
	 This community area straddles the city's dividing lines and is varied demographically in terms of race, income, and percentage of renters:owners. Overall, the community has smaller households--there are many single adults living with partners or roommates. There also is an increase of elementary-aged children in the area, indicating that young families are settling here. 
There are many single parents living in the community, so access to childcare and family-oriented activities are important to people here. Access to mental health care and community involvement/advocacy are also important to people in this area. 

	 Moniteau County is a relatively pristine rural/farming area punctuated by the towns of Tipton and California. Many rural residents are small family farmers. Family farmers and town dwellers have been meeting about Confined animal feeding operations coming into the County
 and our current State Mandated lack of control over the county's Health regulations.
	 concerned about hospital and school 
	 MS&T is a community of students.  Students come from all over the nation to attend this school renowned for its engineering programs.  All these students want to have services to support their schooling.  Some need housing.  Some will need jobs as they go to school. 
	 Hanna Woods Elem and Sorrento Springs Elem in the Parkway school district have a free and reduced lunch rate of 33% which puts them at the highest rate in that school district.  More than for other Pkwy elem schools, a greater number of families in these school communities will need assistance with childcare expenses, housing allowances, and may suffer from periodic food scarcity.  These schools are partly in Senate Dist 15 and partly in Senate District 24.  The other lower income community for the Parkway SD is farther north in Dist 24 which splits the influence of  lower-income families.  This community wants equity in their schools when compared to the other schools around them.
	 This is the heart of Downtown Columbia that extends into the flagship campus. Concerns in this area are also going to be related to campus concerns such as student housing affordability, university employee rights, as well as issues prioritized by downtown businesses, renters, and employees.
	 Mid-MO Catholic Community. This community is very Catholic.  They all attend each other's church festivals and many want their children to go to Catholic School.  It is mostly a farming community.  Many families have at least one parent working for the state of Missouri in Jefferson City.  
David Honse of Vienna, MO aided in the creation of this COI.
	 abandoned most infidelity the population is wrong and the map is wrong alot of the streets thats on the map is not rights ash street is not a part of the heights
	 
eclectic  people and homes  -  developers are buying bungalows and building large contemporary houses  -  there are not many families with children  -  Kansas City Public School District
	 areas with homes worth more than $500,000
	 THe rough boundaries of Creve Couer municipality. 3/4th home owners, average income is $100k+. This is the municipality with the most Jewish residents as identified by a 2014 report. 
	 Jefferson City is very much a driving city and it can be difficult for folks without cars to get around. In the last ten years or so, many more networks of sidewalks and bike lanes have been added which is very helpful. The community could benefit from more. Many residents of J.C. are employed by state and county government. Work commutes between Columbia and Jefferson City are common and the population of Ashland is growing.  Traffic into J.C. via the Jefferson City Bridge (over the Missouri River) is prone to backing up in the mornings due to mist, flat tires, or other issues. This community has dealt with flooding through the years.  Greenspace is accessible. It is a short drive to farmland outside of the city. Lincoln University has an important place in the community. The Missouri River is an important component of Jefferson City's identity and layout.  J.C. benefits from tourism to the Capitol Building, historical buildings, and Lewis and Clark attractions. Over 2/3 of Jefferson City residents are white.
Many residents of Holts Summit and other nearby towns commute to Jefferson City for work and/or school. 
	 I live just outside of Armstrong in an area where farmers mainly live in single family dwellings.

Areas of shared concerns in our community are bad internet.

The roads need big improvement as well.

Lack of shopping and stores is a problem
	 I do most of my shopping, dining out and get my healthcare in parts of Columbia.
I also do business such as large purchases and repairs.

More stores and restaurants are needed in North Columbia.
	 Communities with easy access to polling places
	 This is the area that I consider my immediate neighborhood. Most of the houses are like mine. 
	 Over half of Kansas City are tenants and yet we get little representation in city government and often, the city prioritizes the interests of private developers over us and on our dime. Tenants across the city are experiencing rent increases while many landlords refuse to make repairs and do basic upkeep. Kansas City tenants are a powerful force to be reckoned with. When we started organizing around the housing issues that are pricing our communities out and/or forcing people into substandard or unsafe housing, we won a Tenants Bill of Rights, protected people from eviction, and supported tenant unions across the city. 
	 Many wedding venues and lodging sites are due to their beautiful sceneries.
	 Part of Mark Twain National Forest - Recreation areas, campgrounds
	 An area that shares common issues of traffic, water flow, population density around MSU, economic development, poverty, and people who drive into Springfield to work, back and forth.
	 Renter heavy (42%), large percentage of Asian American (10%) families who are concerned about schools, taxes. Residents also concerned about pollution. 
	 Jackson is a bedroom community.  It is has a small town feel and they are very proud they are not Cape Girardeau.  Compared to their close neighbor Cape, Jackson has little industry.  Jackson High School is bigger than the Cape HS because it draws from west into the county.  There is a huge rivalry with Cape.  Jackson is also the County seat.
	 One of the most walkable communities in kansas city, but could still be better. Besides the main street bus public transit leaves a lot to be desired. With climate change, public transit is the future! 
	 Arnold is a city just south of the StL County line and in the flood prone area of the Meramec River.  The  city is divided between two  MO House districts 97 and 113.  
	 Half of the community is an industrial zone.  The other half consists of neighborhoods that are feeders for Parkville South High School.  It includes Riverside, Parkville, and some unincorporated Platte County.
	 This community includes many of the places I often find myself and my friends spending time in. We frequently reside or visit residents in these areas and we support the businesses of these areas. Much of the entertainment we partake in happens here. This area encapsulates much of our lives and livelihood. If we needed to have town hall meetings about the status of this place, I hope residents of this area would attend and we would work together. I consider this to be my community and my people.
	 Majority Catholic populations. Cattle farms are dominate most of the area. Most commute to Jefferson City for work and shopping. Can buy beer at ballfields. Well kept towns. Higher wage earners than most of Miller county.  Friday night activities include fighting the Protestants to the south.
	 Central-North Columbia includes the areas surrounding Downtown up to the Business Loop which also includes the North Arts Village District. The closer to Downtown, the more you see undergraduate student housing though there are still residential neighborhoods.

Concerns can vary from accessibility of schools to housing affordability and renters rights.
	 Middle to affluent single family homes who are mostly homeowners. Concern but less investment in public schools.  Concern about property values, crime, and basic city services.  Some concern about the impact of Washington U on the community and state of the commercial corridor.
	 Good town to grow up in. Has it's own schools. It's a rural community, and most people live on multiple acres of land. People up here like to do a lot of outdoor activities like 4 wheeling, backroad driving, tubing, and boating.

It takes a while for land to be developed for new businesses but more are finally starting to come in to the community.  A Walmart was supposed to be put in for 10 year and a Price Chopper ended up being built there instead. Most businesses are chains and local chains. The grocery store that was locally owned was sold to Constantino's.
	 These neighborhoods have a high concentration of senior housing, mostly rental units. The Southside Senior Center services this area. Springfield has a high population of senior citizens. The biggest employers in Springfield are the medical industries.  Seniors are concerned about health care issues, prescription drug costs, and access to health care facilities. 
	 lack of animal control.  overgrown lots.  population in accurate/hatyi and hayti heights combined on boundry map,  
	 Communities with easy access to Conservation Areas
	 This community is comprised of the Mehlville School District with larger immigrant populations to the north.  The northern most areas have more home renters with home owners to the south.  Socioeconomics also change dramatically from the north to the south with more families relying on hourly wage employment to the north.  Most of the markets and grocery stores are located in the southern area as well.  
	 This is a diff area than mine but all the kids go to school with our children i still consider these people my neighbors.
	 Romanelli West is outlined by these streets:
N: 64th Terrace
S: Gregory/71st
E: Ward Parkway
W: State Line Road
One-family homes. 
Multigenerational, a mix of single owners, families and older owners.

	 Small community. Mostly Baptist. Majority of the population works at LB Manufacturing. Others commute to the Lake of the Ozarks, Jefferson City or Ft Leonard Wood for work.  Closest hospital is 45 minute drive. One police officer for the area. Armed teachers in school. Response time from county deputies can be as long as 45 minutes. Was the site of a Civil war battle. Confederate troops defending the town ran out of ammunition and loaded rifles with rocks. Many of the same families live in the area.
	 Hospitals that have closed in Rural counties of South East Missouri
	 Working families in northern Columbia, many with kids who attend Derby Ridge and Blue Ridge schools 
	 Connected by Interstate 44, this family's community includes walking neighbors in Webster Groves and St. Louis Hills, many churches, shopping centers and parks, with a diversity of household incomes and backgrounds.
	 The city boundary map is incorrectly drawn to divide Hayti and Hayti Heights

West side of South Mallory street is Hayti Heights and East side of Mallory is City of Hayti

West Main North side is Hayti and South side is Hayti Heights  
Deed Street West Side id Hayti Heights and East side up to West Main street is City of Hayti

Population

99% blacks
1% whites

Income
12k-15k

Homeownership

Renters 70%
Homeowners 30%


	 Big thriving community. Lots of upper middle folks. The community has good schools and a college many locals attend. 
	 Community that faces similar issues related to the airport, industrial area, and lake area.
	 Hospital Hill houses a very big young professional community. This community has professional and college age healthcare individuals. There is a big community that lives near by that works at the local hospitals as well. Common Interests would be access to food, school, and community health. 
	 This community is a rural farming community.  This lake has little to no commercial business on its shoreline, so the businesses in the little towns around it supply fishing and boating needs. 
	 This shopping mall has been a goto places for senior citizens' indoor walking excercise place along with shopping, dining and entertainment. The mall is airconditioned and weather proof, and it is popular for elderlies for walking and strolling.
	 I shop and do much of my business in Fayette.

There is lack of shopping opportunities in Fayette. Basically only one grocery store and a Dollar General.

I also shop in Boonville.

I get my ongoing healthcare in Fayette and specialists in Columbia.

The Fayette square needs some additional businesses to spur the local economy.

There are some good restaurants in Fayette.

The Fayette school has a terrific band.
	 Young, college educated, progressive, gentrifying, LGBTQ, urban, mixed race.  Proximity to farmers markets and dog parks is important.  School choice is a big issue for families.  Rising rents are important, especially for long-time renters.
	 Ashland is a growing community with many residents commuting to Jefferson City or Columbia for work. Top concerns are how the virus is impacting jobs, schools and business; and road maintenance. Employers are having difficulty filling low-wage jobs. Ashland Optimists are an active civics group. There's strong support for the public school and Hawks athletic teams. The Mark Twain Forest and nearby parks are popular, including the KATY bicycle trail

	 These parts of Jackson County (including part of KC), and Northern Cass County, rely heavily on Medicaid.
	 Manufacturing plant - 900 jobs
	 flood prone area in south STL county and Northern Jefferson County.  Streets have been closed for months at a time due to back up of Mississippi river.  Short-term flooding for days due to local and nearby heavy rain.  All these areas greatly affected by upstream levies as well.
	 Lack of consistant and reliable broadband for students and businesses.

	 Communities in flood zones
	 Working class and immigrant families living in a floodplain, walkable to Creve Coeur Park and Lake. Concerned about flooding, overdevelopment, and schools. 
	 There are a lot of retirees and senior citizens in the area.  There is a large immigrant population relative to the rest of the Northland, especially people from Sudan.  People use the parks and outdoor community spaces.
	 Saline County has three distinct kinds of communities. 

The first is Marshall itself (blue). This rural-burb has become the epicenter of Saline County not just as the county seat, but also as the population hub. With the closure of rural post offices, disastrous flooding, bankrupt mom and pop grocery stores, and the closure of smaller schools, the population of Saline County has been forced to migrate toward Marshall. This has left Marshall with limited quality house, minimal high-paying jobs, and a struggling educational system.

The second type of community (green) are those towns like Slater, Sweet Springs, Malta Bend, Arrow Rock that are struggling to survive. These are towns that without state intervention will no longer exist in 20-30 years because businesses will not be able to sustain themselves, especially with increased population and job loss. 

The third type of community (yellow) are the remote rural areas. These are mostly generational family farms--many of which are routinely flooded out, especially in north Saline County where the MO River ruins fields, towns, bridges, and roads all the same. Southern Saline is routinely flooded out because of the Blackwater River, Salt Fork, and the Lamine. These are communities where small towns once existed, but became ghost towns when the post office was removed. The residents in these areas lack access to nearby healthcare in most instances, reliable grocery stories, Internet, and funding to address those issues.
	 School Districts main employer. Poor internet service. Agricultural. Family farms, but also Big Ag. The population is aging. Small towns have many abandoned and buildings crumbling. 
	 Common concerns are public transportation, highways. There is a great diversity among grocery workers; some are college students, some work 2 or 3 jobs. All are concerned about affordable healthcare and public health during COVID, fulltime employment opportunities, a living wage (which is at least $23.00 hour in this region), reliable/affordable/accessible childcare. 
	 Washington School District
	 North Boundary--US 36 South--US 169

St. Joseph is a community with people who like to stick to themselves and who often have political views that can be incongruent with aspects of their lived experience. They say they don't want government intervention (anti-welfare sentiments) but they also will rely on government assistance when it comes to them. This "leave me alone attitude, me and my family will be fine on our own" contributes to the high COVID cases and low vaccine rates that are endangering this community. 

The area has changed a lot in the time I've lived here. We once had strong union representation with 4 union packing houses. Most often the city relied on union construction contracts. Then, when the packing houses began to close, the wealth in the community declined and more contracts started to go to non-union contractors. This economic dive to the bottom coincided with the ideological changes in the community. 

St. Joseph was once a confederate stronghold and, though we are long past the Civil War era, racism continues to be passed down from generation to generation and it prevents this area from thriving in the ways that it could. 
	 The River Market is a thriving district here in Kansas City. The River Market is an active community and the Streetcar runs through the district. Every Saturday and Sunday, the community comes out in droves to the farmers market that brings in local farmers from all over. Common interest of the community would be transportation, access to fresh food, and supporting local business. 
	 Beautiful Greenways trails, Nathaniel Greene Park/Close Memorial Garden, walk and bicycle-friendly along Greenways trails in the neighborhood, Has a registered neighborhood association that is active
	 Working class and higher proportion of renters. Many people who work at the airport, hotels, and hospitality jobs. They want public transit. 
	 homeless and transient people will congregate around the downtown area near Salvation Army
	 The Westport, which does not encompass the Country Club Plaza, centers around art and entertainment industries. Many residents work in these important industries. Collective concerns include road conditions, public health/safety, and expanded access to public transportation. 
	 This community has mostly older houses (100+ years). "Urban pioneers" moved to Central Hyde Park (Armour to 39th) in the '70s and rehabbed houses, returning houses that had been divided into apartments after WWII back into single family homes.  The neighborhood association became hyper vigilant about "density," but there have always been apartments and duplexes throughout Hyde Park, mostly in North and South Hyde Park. In the last decade or so more houses in N and S Hyde Park seem to have become owner-occupied, and more have small children.  Historically, real estate agents steered home buyers away, citing Public School challenges and bias against "Midtown," code for black and lower income people in the neighborhoods or nearby.  Housing prices are increasing.  Armour Blvd had many 100% Section 8 apartment buildings in the '80s, now all but 2 are market rate, as Mac Properties has invested heavily. A new large apartment building is about to open on Armour Blvd. and three more apartment buildings are being built on Armour Blvd and Troost. All of these are market rate rentals, and there's already a parking shortage for existing Armour Blvd. apartment dwellers).  Crime at Armour and Troost, and west to Gillham, has been problematic but seems to be improving in recent years. The neighborhoods have been welcoming to LGBT people for decades and homeowning neighbors have taken pride in being a diverse community that welcomes people of color and immigrants. Residents are generally politically liberal, in terms of supporting health care and the rights of workers, women, racial minorities.  Rockhill north of 47th was put in this community due to census tracts;  it's a generally affluent neighborhood in which the Nelson Atkins Museum of Art is located.  Part of Southmoreland is also in this community;  also old homes, many rehabbed in recent years. 
	 A community with a diverse array of housing types (rental apartments, condos, single family houses, large historic houses), green spaces, artistic centers, and some businesses. The population seems to range from unhoused, struggling young people to wealthy professionals, with every category in between.
	 This is where I live, socialize, and shop. 
	 Lower to middle income. A large amount of renters and a few owned houses.
	 This map includes the 116,000 residents of the Greater South County area who share a lot of commonalities. They share neighboring school districts which gives them a shared interest in the education of their children. The majority of the residents are working middle class homeowners which gives them the same sort of economic issues to deal with. They also share the experience of being close to both the St Louis metro area and a variety of rich Missouri natural areas which lends a unique experience of a snapshot of everything Missouri has to offer. 
	 The community needs more resources for the children, transportation, tutor programs for youth(after school). mentor programs for the youth.  Population:  86.6 % blacks, 9.9% whites.  Voting:  87.1% blacks, 10 %  whites.
	 population
White 57.9%
Black 39.6%

Income
lower 26k-30k

Home Owner
45% ownership
54.5%



	 Communities with easy access to Grocery Stores
	 Commuter community. Most local jobs are with the school district, retirement homes, and low-wage in retail and restaurants. Population growth due to educational opportunities in a public school system.  Good access to healthcare and amenities due to proximity to KC metro. Shortage of rental property. Traffic flow becoming an issue as infrastructure hasn't kept up with population growth. 
	 This community of 33.590, which includes a mix of retirees, families with children and young professionals, prides itself on home ownership and beautification and strong public involvement. While rental properties are concentrated in the southern tracts, my canvassing makes it clear that the renters share community interests. They include close attention  to state and local issues, as evidenced by strong turnouts at town hall and community meetings hosted by elected officials and community leaders. Infrastructure is a major issue because broken sidewalks or no sidewalks proliferate, and potholes appear regularly on the streets. There is intense interest in public, charter and private education and close attention to the Kansas City Public School District, even from neighbors who don't have children there. A committed group of parents worked hard for the reopening of a public K-5 school a few years ago and it has been a huge success. There is strong advocacy for good public transit and strong support for the extension of the downtown trolley line, which will now extend to the University of Missouri-Kansas City. Many educators and graduates of this this four-year school live in the community. The Trolley Trail, which runs the length of the map, is popular among runners, joggers, walkers, bicyclists and dog walkers. Faith is important as houses of worship of several religions and denominations are represented.  Residents would like the state Legislature to be more considerate of urban problems, such as gun violence, health care, lack of affordable housing and the need for local control of the Kansas City Police Department.  
	 Suburbs related by housing density, school districts to the extent possible, and some degree of economic and cultural similarity.
	 Downtown Springfield; Lots of local shops, a local brewery, restaurants, bars; high number of rentals due to downtown area and proximity to Missouri State University; McGregor Elementary; Campbell Early Childhood Center; a large number of vacant and nuisance properties; lack of available affordable housing; West Central Neighborhood Association; poverty an issue
	 The population was 3,075 at the 2010 census.
	 This district serve the Grandview area and is the southern part of State Senate district 7. Common concerns are funding, resources, and the ability to retain its community members. The metro suffers from the brain drain; people get their education and leave. 
	 A lot of blue collar workers who make low to mid income and most travel outside of the community to different parts of the metro. Mix of generations who live here, but it is starting to transition to more younger families. The community has gotten busier and more housing is being built, primarily apartments. There is a concern about building more rental housing rather than encouraging home ownership.
	 Infrastructure, schools, 
	 This area is very conservative, but I get along with my neighbors even as a short-haired hippie (progressive). The area primarily has older adults, who comprise probably 70% of the community, but has some young adults too. The majority of the community's housing is older, but the area is seeing changes mainly with the construction of new buildings.  This area is a suburb and expansion of KC, and has seen a lot of growth. 
	 Most families in this area support public education and are concerned about charter schools. Districts include Webster Groves, Kirkwood, Clayton, University City and Maplewood. Legislative Advocacy Committee members believe good schools in these districts support high property values. Residents share concern about availability of quality child care. Shortage of affordable housing is a growing concern in this area.
	 St. Louis and its surrounding counties share institutions, cultural events, and economic engines. People commute for work, school and recreation within this area, further knitting it together.
	 These areas of Kirksville, MO are primarily rental properties that house 
AT Still University and Truman 
State University Students. 
	 Forder elementary is in the Mehlville SD.  There is a free and reduced lunch rate of 41% in this school.   These are mostly  homeowners; and parents within this community  may experience trouble meeting their needs and rely on help with childcare, health services, and low-cost groceries.  Forder Elem, Beasley Elem and Bierbaum Elem are in SD 1, separating these three schools from the senate district that the rest of the Mehlville SD is in.  
	 Blue Hills, its surrounding neighborhoods and the Prospect Corridor.   Historically and currently still redlined collection of home abrupted by 71 highway, causing poor respiratory and general health outcomes.  Underserved and underinvested.
	 Willow Springs and surrounding area, independent from other towns influence
	 This area is diverse racially and also age-wise. Being so close to two of KC's universities, we have a lot of students mixed in with long-time residents of the neighborhood. This area is comprised of multiple neighborhoods who work together in a coalition (ex: running a tool share program). Something people in this community share in common are progressive values and prioritizing human rights (i.e. supporting Black Lives Matter movement and LGBTQ rights). A concern of the neighborhood is that developers are buying up properties that are going up for sale which could lead to residents of this community getting priced out.  
	 This is the largest public university in the Kansas City Metropolitan area. UMKC currently serves 17,000 undergraduate and graduate students. It also neighbors a vibrant and active community. Common interest would be public transit, public safety, and investment into the university. 
	 St. Jo has gone through major ideological transition. This community used to be primarily blue dog democrats but now is primarily Trump supporters, even amongst union members. We have a great number of elderly folks who are fearful of change and of immigrants. 

There are pockets of progressives and dems, including our church which has become a home to members of the LGBTQ+ community and active progressive groups in the area. What has been disheartening about watching the transformation of this community to Trumpist beliefs is the difficulty it's created for us to work together through community challenges and conflicts together--not the least of which is the spread of COVID in our community. Members of the progressive community are afraid to speak up at times because tensions are high and our realities are so incongruent with one another. 
	 This is the area the represents the college campuses in Springfield, MO. This area has large apartment complexes, shops, and stores directed at college students. 
	 There are two private Liberal Arts universities in Fulton, MO.  Many students/renters.
	 This is a map of an area of Southwest St. Louis County that the people have similar  concern, care and pride in their communities, and their school districts. They participate and support their community functions and  festivals.
	 Festus, MO sits near the mississippi river and just west of Crystal City, MO.  Festus is a small city with a single high school whose boundaries extend much further than the city.  Both the city of Festus and the Festus school district are divided into two Senate districts - Dist 22 and Dist 3.  Assistance with this map came from Jess Shepherd.
	 This community has a large working class population with a mixture of mixed-home, single homes. A lot of rehabbing and development is happening. 

We've  lost some metro lines so access to public transit is limited with walks up to a mile for the bus. 

Many languages are spoken like English, Spanish, and Bosnian. 
	 A portion of Ladue School District and private schools. Very focused on child education in public and private schools. Focus on traffic volume and have seen concerns on Clayton Road. Many residents are elderly but younger generation are moving in.
	 This community contains Missouri State University campus to the North and Mercy Hospital to the east.  The community consists of middle to lower middle class single home dwellings, student housing and apartment complexes.  Common concerns consist of student housing, crowded streets, narrow streets , and traffic problems.
	 Francis Howell Central High School
	 The Hillsboro School District is a community of people who all want quality schools.  The school district is currently divided between two Senate Districts 22 and 3.  Assistance to draw this map came from Jefferson County resident, Jess Shepherd.
	 STL City Community with same HH income and a good of renters and home owner balance.
	 Oakville High School.   The Mehlville School district is divided into two high schools.  Oakville HS  is more in Dist 1.    This community a bedroom community with no major interstate highways crossing the boundary.  Their rival within the same school district has more retail industry.  Oakville HS which is mostly in Dist 1.

	 Similar traffic and commuting concerns. We have a diverse income demographic. Our community is vested in MSU economically.  Mercy Hospital affects us. 
	 Mixed-income community that is predominantly working-class. Community concerns include lack of public transport, green space, and diversified amenities that are accessible and affordable to the working-class community who lives here. 
	 Downtown neighborhood where most residential property is high rise buildings
	 Tourist attractions (Bass Pro, Wonders of Wildlife, Battlefield Mall, several restaurants). A lot of shopping, restaurants, medical facilities. Heavy traffic in this area and noisy. 
	 Small sized city with potential for growth.
	 Multi Ethnic

	 This is a community that the city of St. Louis has historically deemed as unimportant or not worth saving. It is made up of  people who are trying to renew their communities.

	 University Heights and Phelps Grove Park are a mix of owner and rental housing and are connected by Phelps Grove Park - residents are also close to Springfield Art Museum where they attend art classes and other events.
	 Towns like Bowling Green, Eolia, Clarksville and Lousiana rely on larger communities in Lincoln County for employment and shopping needs. Rivertowns like Elsberry and Winsfield are quite similar to Clarksville or Louisiana, and share a concern about flooding along the Mississippi. Some institutions (Pike-Lincoln Technical Institute) serve the whole area.
	 This elementary school in Fenton is in the Rockwood school district and has a free and reduced lunch rate of 29%. 
	 Two sheltered workshops that serve the south area of the lake.
	 A group of several neighborhoods with over one hundred years of first generation immigration from all over the world, shared business interests, and similar economic backgrounds. Largely residential area with tens of thousands of single family homes serving many low-income working class families. 
	 Residential, similarly priced single-family homes, young families to retirees. Professionals. Limited access to major highways.
	 The majority of Howard Co is farmland, with cities of Fayette, Glasgow, New Franklin and Armstrong.  All cities lacking in local businesses, and having infrastructure problems.  Increasing residents employed out of county, shopping out of county, except the farming community. Less people bonding for good of communities. Strong public/parochial schools in each, plus Central Methodist University in Fayette.  Some manufacturing in Glasgow.  
	 This is part of Webster Groves that is bounded by Watson Rd on the South and Manchester on the North. This part of Webster is centered by the Recreation Complex Center at 44 and Elm and the businesses and restaurants on Lockwood. People in this community walk this neighborhood regularly and our kids go to elementary schools together and play in the same parks. 
	 Webb City is a community based around the schools. there is wide reaching community support around the school district and library even in older populations. There is a VFW and a city stop railroad staffed by volunteers. Sidewalks and road maintenance. Recycling is an issue and it used to be offered by the city. Chamber and Arts district work well together and promote each other. A small theater town.  Lack of rental housing. Share the industrial park with Joplin but it is located in Webb City
	 Living neighborhoods sparsely mixed with large business districts. Varied employment, mostly service industry jobs or professional labor.  Some parts of infrastructure is outdated and/or needs greater maintenance -- occasional power outages, storm water surges, unreliable internet service.
	 Edgerton has changed and altered over the 45 years you've been there--it went from big farms (200-500 acres) to smaller farms (5-20 acres). New houses being built that are big and abundant. This reflects a demographic change from working class to more affluent. This community is very conservative in ideological views. Not many kids live out here anymore. Sam Graves' brother lives up the road from me and buys up all the properties in the area that he can. A lot of evangelicals in this area. The roads are bad and they flood and internet access is poor; there is a high need for investment in infrastructure. Edgerton relies on schools in neighboring towns. 

N Barry Rd--House district 14--more Democrats and more liberal, lot of professionals. Couples in 40s to 60s and both work--kids in their teens and young adult. 
	 Within the Delmar Divide, right by some of the expensive living and on the other side parts of the city that has lacked major investment from the city. 

Very diverse area economically. 

Because of Trinity Episcopal Church, whenever STL DSA has meetings in the space, transient and unhoused folks come through for food, shelter, and community.

There is a metrolink station in the Cortex area, but is limited as it only goes East and West. 

Also home to the Neighborhood Security Imitative. Area secured by privately-owned The City's Finest. There is also a lot of public and private surveillance. 

Although a walkable neighborhood, the area does feel exclusive. 

There are immigrant-owned restaurants. 

Large amount of students because of SLU. 
	 Represents the main areas of Lee's Summit. Similar levels of development, school interests, parks and rec coverage. Mostly owner occupied single family housing. Some single family rentals and apartments. Some areas in the school district are excluded due to different class and property dynamics. The areas around the lakes (Lotawana, Prairie Lee, Jacomo, and Winnebago) are almost exclusively owner occupied and housing costs price out lower income households. The area around Lee's Summit West High School has a similar housing and wealth landscape as well as some more rural areas. The area around Unity Village and the municipal airport is within the Lee's Summit School District but is more in common with the Lakewood Lakes area to its north. The area East of Harris Rd, North of 155th St/County Line Rd, and South of 50 HWY is more rural and more like Lone Jack and Pleasant Hill.
	 Eureka has had recent (5 years) periodic flooding downtown due to many offshoots of the Meramec wandering through Eureka.  A Bond issue was passed to clean out these tributaries. The Meramec River starts and ends in Missouri.  This far from the Mississippi River usually means that if the Mississippi River is high that Eureka does not see the prolonged flooding that is experienced further downstream like in Arnold.  This is Dist 26 but a small portion of the City of Eureka is in Dist 15.  Assistance with this map was from Nancy Pawol.
	 Kirkwood is a suburb of St Louis along I44 mostly inside the I270 loop.  It has a downtown community that is walkable.  It has an area with box stores as well, that is located further south along Kirkwood Rd.   The community has a single high school and a community college. People in this community want a balance.  Most of this community is in Senate Dist 15, but a few are in Senate District 1.

	 In this area, people rely predominantly on public schools and care a lot about quality public schools, and invest a great deal of resources into their public schools.
	 One of 34 Neighborhood service areas in as defined by the Springfield Vision 2020 process.  
	 health care access 
	 Maple Grove Elementary in the Northwest SD has 48% free and reduced lunches.  Many families that live in this community will likely need help with healthcare, childcare, and maybe housing.  Accessible low cost groceries would be needed or perhaps many have vegetable gardens to help get healthy food.  Most of the area are home owners and not renters.   This is the area of the Northwest SD that is in Senate Dist 3.

	 Southmoreland is a diverse neighborhood of mid to upper income families.  Some lower income and idle, unoccupied homes do exist.  Many of these are being purchased by home flippers and are now bringing in higher income homeowners.  A few investment/ multi-family businesses own many parcels which are transient apartment dwellers.  Most of these are middle income renters that are fundamentally well settled and not loud raucous people.  This is an artful commingling of peoples; due to the presence of the Kansas City Art Institute, the Nelson Atkins Museum of Art,  the Kemper Gallery of Modern art and the near proximity to the Country Club Plaza commercial district.  Amenities here abound and create a well rounded community that is progressive, not afraid of change but is interested in historic preservation of older properties.  To protect the ongoing new developments along Main Street and Broadway this neighborhood should be established as a Local Kansas City Historic District.  This would help to alleviate the growing friction between new construction  and the older housing/ commercial building fabric of the neighborhood.   
	 CAFO class 1A. Provides jobs, but also environmental concerns
	 Columbia is defined by the school system and by the common interests of the residents, who work for employers in the community, go to school in town, and need to be served by public servants who have in mind the interests of those who live in small cities.
	 A much-maligned corner of St Louis County
	 Kirkwood & Webster Groves School Districts
	 Communities without easy access to Grocery Stores
	 A significant renter community (33%), the area has many immigrant and Muslim American families and also contains the largest mosque in the St. Louis area. Residents are concerned about safe driving, schools, and park accessibility. 
	 Branson Airport is an option to connect to regional hubs and other smaller cities.  Employs from local community.
	 The Power and Light district is an important part of Kansas City. Not only does it bring in a lot of outside investment, but it also house a young professional community. Here in this district, community members have an average to above average median income and spend a lot of their time out in the district. Common interest would be local business, night life, and access to housing. 
	 This Community is Rolla and Rolla adjacent communities
	 The Kansas City community has a vibrant and resilient LGBTQ community. The LGBTQ+ community and its history have been vital to the progress of Kansas City. The areas highlighted have LGBTQ+ spaces, establishments, and/or centers that are important to the LGBTQ+  community. It's important that this community continue to have representation at all levels of government, especially those who are Black and LGBTQ+. 
	 Diverse group of people of multi-racial backgrounds and cultures and young and old. There is a young community and elderly community who balance each other pretty well. The area is also balanced politically. This area is getting it's rebirth. The homes are built in the 50s and 60s and many homes still have original occupying elders whose kids have grown left the house. New families with elementary aged children are moving in as the older generation ages out and bringing new life to an aging community and revamping the old houses. 
	 Very popular restaurant, especially large crowds from tour buses going to and from Branson.
	 The Plaza is south Kansas City's shopping district and leads to our affluent and middle-income community in south Kansas City. The majority of protests in Kansas City happens at the Plaza as well. The Plaza will also be the south end for the expansion of the streetcar as well. Common interests would be community, public safety, human rights, and policy change locally. 
	 Fort Zumwalt School District
	 This represents most of South Saint Louis County and the common interests of local businesses, transportation maintenance, public schools, libraries, etc. 
	 This area is especially vulnerable to earthquake damage but neither the city nor the state has in place any program to help people retrofit their homes for seismic resistance.  It is not only older homes that are inadequate.  The city of Cape Girardeau exempts new residential building from the construction standards which are meant for regions of high seismic risk such as ours.
	 St. Charles County does not offer bus services. However, the City of St. Charles provides in-town transportation services to various locations during select times. The Saint Charles Area Transit system, otherwise known as SCAT, consists of 5 bus routes that provide transportation to various locations within the City of Saint Charles as well as to the Metrolink North Hanley Station. All buses are equipped with wheelchair lifts. Contact SCAT at 636-949-3364.
	 Residents in this community attend church, shop for groceries, go to the doctor, eat at restaurants, and send their kids to school within the community boundaries.  Community concerns include better access to transportation and safer roadways. 
	 There's strong support for Nixa's public school district; bond issues as well as tax levies are consistently successful. School system attracts quality teachers, board of education has won several statewide awards for its leadership. Nixa was formerly a sleepy, small town but for last 35 years has grown to a mix of "hometowners" and people who work in Springfield, about nine miles to the north. This growth is due to excellent public schools and rapid housing development  In the 1990s Nixa school district was fastest growing school district in Missouri. Today, growth has slowed a bit--but not much. City government has been future oriented: Nixa Public Building Corporation was established about 1990 to issue bonds for a much-needed new City Hall; a fee was created whereby landlords pay for a city inspection each time the tenant changes making sure the rental is safe and meets building codes; Nixa City Council imposed a facial mask requirement during Covid that withstood some public opposition. County government has a history of cooperation with Nixa, one of the two largest cities in the county, especially in the area of economic development. City of Nixa has successfully courted gigabit speed internet for residents and business. The City purchases power from a 72-acre solar farm constructed in 2017. Nixa struggles to attract new business though a newly reenergized Chamber of Commerce is helping. The Nixa region considers itself autonomous in spite of its dependence on Springfield and Greene County for health care, higher education and entertainment. Residents of the Nixa region are proud to be Christian Countians. In spite of progressive accomplishments, residents are solidly conservative in politics and most are likely church-goers who declare as Christians.
	 The northern section between Bus 54 and 54 Hwy contains  a school, several churches,  a few bars and boutiques along the lower Bagnell damn strip. There is also a grocery store that services most of HH and the northside of the Lake. The 2nd section just North of 42 has several retirement communities, some that are Section 8 housing. Further down 42, there is a golf course with nice homes, a bowling alley, A large complex of big box stores with a Hy-Vee, the main campus of School of the Osage along with a community park and ball field. Kaiser has several businesses as well as several Section 8 apartments that house a large part of the workforce. There is also part of the Lake of the Ozarks State Park, a spaceship, 2 suspension bridges and farmland clear through Brumley.
	 There are a lot of blue collar families in this community.  There are also a lot of single parent households and apartment buildings.  A lot of people work at the Ford plant in Claycomo and people who work at GM on the Kansas side.
	 These areas highlight my community of daycare parent get togethers. We frequent parks and nature areas with the kids, and local restaurants and bars for a fun night out.  Unfortunately, there have been changes in daycares due to the financial strain so our outings is what keeps us connected. 
	 people who use trails, fitness center,  restaurants, banks
	 Area surrounding the I-70 corridor
	 One of the few National Park in the area
	 People in this region all consider themselves part of the Lebanon community. They work here. They shop here. They get the medical care that they can access here, but for many procedures they have to travel either to the Lake of The Ozarks or Springfield. The economy of this part of the state is wildly diverse; Lebanon is a huge manufacturing hub boasting several different types of industry, but the workers are generally underpaid, and live just above the poverty line. The community also supports a tourism economy due to its access to the Niangua River. Additionally, there is a lot of agriculture outside of the urban center of Lebanon proper. 
	 Francis Howell School District
	 This area is a socioeconomic hodgepodge containing both high to mid income homeowners, low income homeowners, renters and government subsidized housing projects. This makes it a little difficult for shared identity to be well assessed. Shared interest and concerns are much easier. This side of town has a lot of concerns about poor infrastructure, especially in regards to sewers as well as under investment in our schools. Many if not all residents also feel that healthcare is inadequate despite the hospital being located here. As many residents do not have health insurance or cannot afford to use the insurance they do have, access is an issue. A further issue is the quality of care at our hospital, many folks who are able, get their medical care, especially specialist care, in Columbia or Jefferson City. Rural areas within these two census blocks have internet quality and access issues which affects many of the residents in town by proxy. It is not unusual for residents with internet access to allow their rural friends access to their passwords so that they can come download shows, do computer updates, or submit homework.  Many residents are employed in the service sector, education around town or in nearby towns and those in industrial warehouse or manufacturing jobs in the southwest part of town. Most of the higher income housing is out by the country club and over by Teal Lake. The Teal Lake area is a hodgepodge like the rest of the town. I'm not sure these census blocks are a great way group communities of shared interest as some of it is very rural and some of it is not. Rural folks have other concerns about infrastructure that is not shared by the rest of the shaded area, such as poor road quality, school transportation funding, etc.
	 My communtiy  is a food desert (no grocery store or fresh fruits or vegetables available). The commercial part of town has been in decline my  entire life of 44 years and is riddled with abandoned buildings and  houses much of which I imagine is due to farming requiring fewer and fewer people to cultivate due to advances in the technology and machinery. The majority of the people who graduate leave the area and those like myself must commute to blytheville or paragould just to have sustained employement  to earn a living. There is an extreme shortage of jobs available in town.
	 Major area of employment for people working in the tourism and service industry
	 Communities with easy access to childcare facilities
	 St Charles High School
	 Marshall is the county seat of Saline County. It has four public elementary schools that feed into one public middle school and one public high school. It has one private Catholic school that teaches PK-8 that also feeds into one public high school. The only other high schools in the county are in Slater, Sweet Springs, and Malta Bend. However, there are numerous K-8 schools in many of the smaller communities across the county. The vast majority of those students all have the option of attending Marshall for high school--and most of them make that choice. This results in students living 20-30 miles away from school requiring transportation to and from Marshall. With recent budget cuts to school transportation, a bus driver hiring shortage, and increased infrastructure problems due to tremendous flooding in the area--such as highways being impassable and bridges perpetually under-construction (literally last summer you had to drive around Blackwater, Nelson, Arrow Rock to Slater to get into Marshall which took more than an hour for a trip that should have been 20 minutes). 

Add to those transportation difficulties the fact that most locations outside of Marshall, Slater and Sweet Springs have no option for internet other than unreliable satellite internet and you see that students in the most remote rural communities do not have access to the resources they need to succeed.


	 Brennan Woods Elementary in the Northwest SD has 42% fee and reduced lunches.  Many families that live in this community will likely need help with healthcare, childcare, and maybe housing.  Most of the area are home owners and not renters.   Assistance with this map came from Peggy Robb.
	 Communities with easy access to Public Parks
	 The population was 1,829 at the 2010 census.
	 Local cemeteries with housing very close by
	 As of the 2010 census, O'Fallon had a population of 79,329
	 Middle class families; majority Caucasian; work outside their home base; conservative. concerned about schools; infrastructure; lots of new housing being built for the increase in population that is occurring. Lots of new younger folks/families moving into the area.  The convening place is church; kids sports. 
	 Mehlville High School. The Mehlville School district is divided into two high schools.  Mehlville HS  is fairly evenly divided between Dist 15 and 1.   This community is crossed by two major roadways I55 and I270/I255.  This community is less of a bedroom community than their rival within the same school district, Oakville HS which is mostly in Dist 1.
	 This is my current residence. 

This is a blue collar working class neighborhood.

Crime is a common concern mainly stealing from yards and porches.

Traffic issues on Blue Ridge Rd. from cars driving way too fast for the neighborhood.
	 Volker, its surrounding neighborhoods including 39th Street Restaurant District, Westport, and across the state line - Kansas University Hospital system. Historically, a working class neighborhood with older homes and apartments, and populated with diverse, old and young people. We care about city history and the older buildings in our district. Access to I-35 is a major traffic flow, on older streets. Both the restaurant district and the freeway, mean many non-residents travel regularly through the neighborhood. Many traffic calming efforts are underway - not very attractive to longer-term residents. There has a been a rash of rapid-built 5 over 1 buildings that are not a fit for the neighborhood - longer residents and home owners don’t care for them as they are changing the face of the neighborhood. Has a hidden wooded trail, and the neighborhood has a lot of walkers and dogs. Common interests include walking, patronizing non-chain stores/restaurants, and the arts. 

#HAP (Heartland Alliance for Progress) 
	 Community is spread out with lots of farming around the area. Close to a lot of highways but there is no public transit. People are overall friendly and neighborly. 

The area is kind of gentrified and it's segregated. McMansions can be less than a mile from poorly maintained apartment buildings where low-income residents live.
	 Seckman High School is the more rural community compared to the more dense and flood-prone Fox High school.  The windy roads through the hills around Seckman may challenge parents ability to get out in snowy weather.   This community wants quality schools in this area south of the St. Louis suburbs.  This community values the scenic nature of where they live. Mastodon State Park is just east of their border.
	 The Poosey Conservation Area is an area where my family hikes, where I do photography.
We also participate in the Poosey Tour regularly.
People from all over the state visit Poosey to fish, hike, camp, swim and many other recreational activities.
There was recently a grave threat posed to the area from a large hog CAFO that was attempting to build a facility within 2 miles of the conservation area. This attempt was turned back by community pushback and organizing.
Protecting this destination conservation area should be a top priority into the future
	 The Northwest School District follows Hwy 30 from Fenton to South of Grubville.  Although most of the school district is in Senate Dist 22 that is a small fraction that is in Dist 3.  This community will want quality schools for their children and their neighbor's children.  They would also be concerned about the business and industry that grow up along  Hwy 30, while they try to keep their community separate from the suburbs of St. Louis county.  Assistance with this map came from Chris Honse, former resident of Jefferson County.
	 this is where i regularly spend time. the community tends to be lower income, downtown urban residents with whom i share very little in common.
	 High Ridge Elementary in the Northwest SD has 48% free and reduced lunches.
Many families that live in this community will likely need help with healthcare, childcare, and maybe housing.  Accessible low cost groceries would be needed or perhaps many have vegetable gardens to help get healthy food.  Most of the area are home owners and not renters.  Assistance with this map came from Peggy Robb.

	 This is the community of Lake Lotawana -- it's very tight knit, so this is just mostly the residential area plus some small stores/restaurants/bars that folks frequent.
	 My community is made up of, mostly, working class people in their thirties and forties. Only one family has small children. My youngest is 13. It doesn't appear that many of us are home very often. We all seem to have more than one job. One of my biggest complaints is the waste management here. We definitely need roll carts. Every trash pick up, there's garbage in the streets and in people's yards because animals get into the bags or whatever. There's a few places you can walk to. There's two liquor stores, a mile apart from each other, in either direction. We also have a new gas station, car wash and one of the said liquor stores. They are rapidly building more apartments in that area, as well. I see people walking in the mornings and evenings. I tend to be out in the mornings, with other dog walkers. We had a garden last year but have been way to busy for that this year. However, the farmer's market is not too far but you've gotta drive there from our neighborhood. The city took out the bus stop in our area, which is unfortunate, especially now that there are more places to go in that neighborhood. It feels like a basic, normal, middleclass neighborhood. We don't go to church and I don't think our neighbors do either. We try to be on rivers and lakes anytime we have a free weekend. We used to grill outside and have friends and family over. We noticed the neighbors doing the same. COVID definitely changed that. We are all vaccinated but we still use caution.  I work in Fulton and have about a 45 minute commute. I think most of the people around me live and work in Columbia. We were pretty close with the neighbors that lived on the other side of our duplex but they just moved and bought a house. It's not a new development. I believe it was probably built sometime in the 80's and has had some renovations. We are renters. I wish we had a fenced in back yard but that's not going to happen until we buy our own home. It kind of feels like everyone living in these duplexes, looks at our housing as temporary, until we find what we want. They're pretty basic but functional. One thing that does bring us all together is our hatred of the trash system. 
	 Wentzville Timberland High School 
	 These are small districts that have common academic and sports leagues. They are a cooperative of smaller school districts
	 These communities have farmers and agriculture, including cattle and crops. They are affected by agricultural issues. They also rely on public schools.
	 Locations where most retired people live
	 My neighborhood stretches between 44 and 64 and between Tucker and Grand. 
Lafayette Square is in here, with lost of historic houses and many gay people. I live right next to Jefferson, which is a racial divide, and so is Truman Parkway. It's important to me to define the neighborhood as including the Gate and other areas West of Jefferson, and East of Tucker. We need ways to unite this neighborhood. The bus runs down Jefferson, and that's also where the library and most of the stores are, so it draws parts of the neighborhood together. 
Parts of SLU are leaking into the neighborhood, and that's a factor for gentrification. We need to keep the neighborhood affordable.
	 1910s historic architectural district, with dozens of 100+ year-old houses; mixed income, mixed home owners and renters; mixed residential with businesses on the margins. It's a walkable neighborhood, with access to multiple transit routes within 2-6 blocks; moderately expensive grocery, entertainment, and locally owned restaurants within 6-12 blocks. Bounded by the under-construction trolley car expansion, so prices are escalating, fairly rapidly; adjacent, in the Valentine neighborhood a massive apartment building is under construction, creating increased noise pollution, traffic density, and parking pressure. One land speculator bought a 1909 three-story brick building two years ago and painted the brick, against the historic building codes; another tried to get a zoning exemption to house 11 people in a previously-zoned single family home, on a quiet mostly single-family, mostly owner-occupied block .  Dramatic increase in gun fire within ear shot in the past year.
	 Important: good paying jobs, affordable housing, education, parks, healthcare that is welcoming and inclusive of diverse populations, especially LGBTQ folks. 
	 Live in a new subdivision in a northern part of Liberty. I work from home so my community is small and includes the school my child attends and the trails we enjoy hiking
	 No hospital services; deep racial divides;low income in small communities with the wealth in the rural farming areas. Schools are fairly good in the communities. Public health services are defunded and driven by politics. 
	 This community North of Broadway and South of I-70 includes Columbia College and Stephen's Lake Park, both of which attracts a lot of student renters and some home buyers, specifically graduate students and other younger professionals. Three main grocery stores--Gerbes, Walmart, and Hyvee--provide essentials for this community. Lots of local businesses in this community find support in the residents in this area who spend a lot of time at local events like the farmer's market, first fridays, and fun activities like music. Public schools like Ridgeway Elementary and Hickman High School attract settling families and kids to the area, bringing more support for local businesses.
	 South-side-ish Springfield, this includes our home, our retail area with both franchises, chain, and small businesses, outdoor space and parks with green space and community emphasis on outdoor activities such as bike trails, running trails, and includes access to our hospitals - it feels like a good combination of suburban/urban.
	 This is the area that will likely go to Maryville for shopping, entertainment, food, and community events. 
	 Agriculture, school, and nursing home provide only places of local employment.  Tuscumbia residents are largely self employed, commuting or retired/disabled. Single family home owners and renters.  Tuscumbia village is a trailer park, but many houses in the surrounding area identify as living in Tuscumbia.  No grocery stores, one restaurant, one gas station.  The river divides the community, but they all are considered park of the Tuscumbia community.  
	 Fort Zumwalt East High School
	 Communities served by sanitary sewer
	 The community has a lot of older folks living in it. It is still majority white but enclaves of immigrant communities and communities of color are starting to pop up. Those communities are still condensed into small enclaves (segregation). Example: Vietnamese restaurants are all in one area and it's by design. 

The neighborhood has political and racial tensions. Overall, it's a safe community that is nearby to local coffee shops and restaurants. 




	 Communities with easy access to Medical Facilities
	 Very important district to the community at-large. Westside houses a lot of business and organizations that serve low-income and underrepresented neighborhoods. A vibrant and proud community lives here. Common interest would be the welfare of the neighborhood, community, and investment into those who truly need it. 
	 Low Income, Low jobs, land owners
	 The North End of the historic Westside neighborhood in KCMO
	 It is an economically mixed community of mostly working people.  The neighborhood is chaning and there are more progressive people moving in.
	 I used to teach in the Slater School District. 

Lack of funding for the schools and teachers is a big problem in the district.

A high number of students are from families with low incomes. All kids up through junior high get free breakfast and lunch.

Slater has a good sports program and good education for a town this size.

Students who live outside the city limits of Slater can attend Marshall schools if they choose.
	 The community centers around Hyde Park and Salisbury Street
	 This is close to the boundaries of the school district my son attends and I am involved. 
	 Lake Tapawingo--A lot of parents with high school aged children live hear looking for a place to settle down and raise their families. There are two high schools, so there are a lot of highschoolers. LGBTQ friendly community--LGBTQ kids have opportunities here. 

Waldo--a lot of poorer families grow up and make their lives the best they can here. A lot of renters living in apartments. The community is kind--people talk to each other and help each other out. The housing and buildings are older, kind of outdated. Gentrification has not affected this community. 
	 There are actually 3 Villa Ridges: 
1 CDP Census Designated Population
2 63089 Zip or Postal Code
2010 Census - Census Block Map
A diverse community of rural and extra-urban people, wide range of ages, a church or 3, part of 2 different school districts and community college districts.
	 Families with students that attend Lafayette High School in Wildwood, the more affluent part of the Rockwood School District. 1,794 students. The racial makeup of the school is 76.4% White, 11.4% Black, 7.5% Asian, and 3.1% Hispanic. Roads are hilly and many students have long bus rides to school.
	 On a macro level, all of these places are areas that I would consider to be a part of Springfield and its broader community/metropolitan. The population of each of the highlighted cities outside of Springfield interacts with Springfield in many important ways. They work in Springfield, they go to Springfield for entertainment, they all use the Springfield hospital system, the schools interact really closely, many of the students of the surrounding areas hang out in Springfield, etc... Springfield is so sprawled out that, if anything, the surrounding cities almost just feel like Springfield suburbs. None of them are typically more than a 20 minute drive out.
	 This community is lower to middle income.  There are a lot of houseless people in the community.  There is a central shopping district on Northeast Chouteau.
	 Primarily single family residential but growing apartment homes. Light industry, retail/commercial and pockets of rural; 10,000+ acres to be developed over next 10 years. Primarily middle to upper middle class incomes. Issues of transit, pollution, sewage/waste water, and run-off as large new tracks of land are being developed.
	 I grew up and lived in Fayette for 30 years. I visit there frequently as my brother and sister still live there and occasionally dine out there.

I grew up on a farm just outside Fayette in Howard County and lived there about 20 years.

That area is comprised mostly of farm families in single family dwelling.

Common interests include road and sidewalk improvements and improved cell phone service.

They also need improved trash and recycling pickup.

Dogs running loose is a big neighborhood issue
	 Established neighborhood with mixed age housing
Majority white and hispanic families
More than 90% owner-occupied homes
Long term residents 
Socially and politically active, community-oriented, strong neighborhood traditions 
	 Midtown St joseph has a large collection of historical properties and older homes that have not been taken care of over the years. Leading to blight and increased crime. This area has a large percentage of low income rentals and abandoned properties. Also, Midtown neighborhoods were also the worst affected by redlining in the 1930s and 1940s. 
	 Labadie is an unincorporated town in Franklin County and is in District 26.  However, this area is  carved out to the northeast of Dist 26 and lies close to both Dist 2 and District 15.  Downtown Labadie is ½ block with 2 restaurants and a part-time outdoor breakfast /lunch venue. There is one grade school. The township is 88% white, with 52% white collar and 48% blue collar workers. There are 105 businesses with the Labadie Energy Center employing 250 persons. This is Ameren's largest coal-fired plant in Missouri. In 2019 a federal judge ordered Ameren to install scrubbers to reduce carbon emissions. Since 2009, the LEO (Labadie Environmental Organization)has focused on the coal ash landfills and residue issues, and contaminating the Missouri river. This has deeply divided the community. Since the Missouri River begins in Montana, the Labadie area is subject to flooding from weather thousands of miles away as well as locally.  The coal ash ponds are thus subject to flooding and St Louis residents are subject to the toxic water as well as the locals in Labadie. Assistance with this map from Nancy Pawol.
	 Independence, MO, Sugar Creek and surrounding townships. A community with strong public schools just east of the biggest city in the state. A bridge between urban, suburban, and exurban with large working class populations. Its hospitals, parks, and public schools are important investments to this community.
	 East of Troost (dividing line). This is a community in transition with primarily a mix of African American and Caucasian folks mostly. The area is experiencing an increase in property values with some housing going up about 2x in value. 

There is an active neighborhood association that reflects the diversity of the community. They led projects to build a playground and community gardens. The whole community is invested in making Squier Park a fun and safe neighborhood for everyone. A lot of ownership in Squier Park, so homes are taken care of. 

There are important services here like the programs at De La Salle High School which helps teens learn skills that can help them succeed in trade and vocational careers. 
	 Brookside is a south Midtown community that is family oriented and invested in local small businesses. Many people in this community are business owners or entrepreneurs. Common concerns are being a safe place to walk or bike, and being able to work with neighbors on non-profit efforts to increase equity and help children. 
	 EUREKA  is a city located close to the Meramec River and its 11 square miles has parts in 3 counties- St. Louis,  Franklin, and Jefferson.  The majority  of Eureka (west of the Meramec River)  is Senate District 26 
District 26 serves part of Chesterfield, part of Ballwin, all Wildwood, Ellisville,and lots of small rural communities South of the Missouri River.The narrow strip of homes and 3 golf courses along Lewis Rd. just east of the Meramec River are served by Senate District 15.  These homes utilize Eureka as a commerce center and should be part of District 26.  Assistance with this map from Nancy Pawol.
	 Quality Hill houses a big portion of downtown. Quality Hill residence usually work in the district as well as shop locally. Tucked away a bit, it is a quiet community that keeps to its self. Common interest would be transportation, income, as well as community development. 
	 This community encompasses a few smaller communities with their own governing bodies and culture. In Claycomo, the transition of who the trustees are on its governing body cause there to be changes to ordinances that are not always enforceable and not always well informed. Claycomo's funding relies a lot on the police who write speeding tickets along 435 and 35 and the Ford plant.
Pleasant Valley has a different governing body than Claycomo and a different feel as a community. Neighbors try to help each other, and the community support networks there have expanded during COVID. Pleasant Valley is also zone more commercially. 
	 It's a mix of people of different ages, marital statuses, and children.  It's a very diverse place in my apartment complex.  The broader community is working-class to middle-class professionals.
	 An agricultural community
	 This area includes home-owners, renters, and institutions dealing with increasing development.  School districts are very similar in needs, challenges and opportunities.  Public transportation is limited -- the automobile rules!  Relations with "the city" of KCMO can be problematic.
	 Prison provides jobs but also brings unique concerns for nearby residents
	 This lead smelter site has been declared a superfund site.  This community is going to be concerned about their health and the health of their families.  They need to have access to better healthcare because the health of many was compromised.  Also, property values would be depressed because the area is poisoned.  Some homes were part of the voluntary property purchase plan.  Map assistance from Jess Shepherd.
	 Brookside is a vibrant and welcoming community in south Kansas City. The majority of the community owns their home and are middle to upper-class individuals. The Brookside community is active in the community as well and host an annual art expo. The Brookside community and their neighborhood association is well organized as well. Common interests would be public education, community events, and investments into their community. 
	 This community centers on the University of Missouri campus. Many of its residents are students and/or employees of the university. Infrastructure, higher education funding, and public transit are primary concerns.
	 This area is comprised of neighbors adjacent to Tower Grove Park , who are most likely to frequent it for recreation with their families to form social connections. 
	 This community sits just West of Downtown Kansas City, and has many diverse residents, including Hispanic, Black and White citizens.
	 locations where students rent off-campus apartments and duplexes
	 An area in the Kansas City Metro where four cities meet around main highway and shopping. A mix of middle income homeowners and renters. There is a higher percentage of hispanic voters than Missouri overall.
	 This community includes two county park lakes.  Due to the freeway traffic overflow and traffic to the lakes, our roads are in serious need of repair.  
	 The population was 328 at the 2010 census
	 A community of students. UMSL helps to provide food, transportation, monetary aid, and access to electronics for those attempting to further their education.
	 'west central  Jefferson City. Residential  and business district, restaurants, middle class homes. Many people employed with State of MO, and local hospitals. Concerns with schools, effects of blasting at local quarry , businesses developing in area.
	 often used stopping points for people driving on HWY13
	 Predominantly Chinese Americans, first gen from mainland China. Kids are largely in Ladue, Parkway, or Clayton school districts. Parents are concerned about education. 
	 We love our community because our community is uniquely diverse.  We have residents with varying levels of income and who share different racial and ethnic backgrounds.  We come together in our beautiful parks, educational and cultural institutions, irrespective of age, ethnicity, who we love or the different array of beautiful homes in which we reside.  Prior to the pandemic, we had many opportunities for work, for small and medium-sized businesses and for entertainment.  Post-pandemic, and with the lessons learned, we expect to improve upon our previous successes.  Visitors are welcome, we thrive both professionally and socially, and we work closely in many different organizations to help each other and to resolve our socio-economic and public safety issues.  But we know that we still have a lot of work to do, so it is our desire that our community remain intact.  
	 Since Republicans blocked Medicaid Expansion against voter wishes, this community is people who might rely on the Good Samaritan Care Clinic in Mountain View Missouri for some semblance of health care. 
	 This community is larger than I would have made it because of the census blocks. This is a culturally diverse area mixed with low and high income people in this district. This community is categorized by the places they shop and go to school. These people also use the toll road to get to the Osage Beach side of the lake. This is an economic disadvantage for these folks because of the low economic opportunity and must cross the bridge for higher paying jobs and more opportunity. 
	 All of those interacting with local businesses on our segment of Telegraph.
	 Ross Elementary and Craig Elementary schools in the Parkway school district have a free and reduced lunch rate of 30% which puts them near the highest in that school district.  More than for other Pkwy elem schools, a greater number of families in these school communities will need assistance with childcare expenses, housing allowances, and may suffer from periodic food scarcity.  The biggest renter density is along Page Ave and FeeFee Rd.  This community is in Dist 24 but the other lower income community for the Parkway SD is in Dist 15 which lessens the influence of these lower-income families.  This community wants equity in their schools when compared to the other schools around them.

	 Most people are middle-class and there are a lot of families.  People are slightly more progressive than the rest of the Northland.  The people in this area like public parks and other community gathering spaces.
	 Some areas on the outskirts of Springfield are lacking access to public transportation and pedestrian walkways.  This makes it unsafe and difficult for people to access employment and goods and services.  
	 This golf club off the beaten path has in the past been a PGA course.  It's location along the flood-prone Meramec River means that they are often having to repair the course.  The community needs the support of services to keep their roadways passable when the river gets big.  Map assistance from Terry Dunlap.
	 Highlights generally older houses and properties.
	 S/SE Saline County, NW Cooper, N Pettis Counties.  Includes the towns of Marshall, Sweet Springs, Arrow Rock, Blackwater, Glasgow, Slater.  Cohesive population centers surrounded and separated by large tracts of row-cropping.  Shared interests include tourism, historical preservation, education and youth activities, infrastructure, community spaces (e.g., parks, YMCA), local hospital, concern for flooding, hunting/fishing.  Some concern for social/racial justice. 
	 Largest city in Howard Co, few business but home to Central Methodist University, the largest employer.  Mix of ages, increased rental property due to University.  Some areas deteriorating.  Major grocery store in Co. Residents work out of county. 
	 Older residential neighborhood, many historic homes, has been home to working people and professionals, good schools that kids can walk to and nice parks. A community concern is that recent and planned development is designed to attract higher income people. New homes that are being built to replace modest ones are very large costing $600k+. This is happening throughout Webster including North Webster, a historic, predominately Black neighborhood, pushing home prices up and working people out. New business development, of which there is quite a bit, is also aimed at high income people. This is making my community of over 20 years, unaffordable for regular working families who have made Webster Groves their home for decades. 

	 Raintree Country Club is a lake community just outside the city of Hillsboro, so the services that they receive would be separate from the city.   They are a gated community. This community is in Senate District 3, like the Hillsboro City but they are in a different Senate Dist than Jefferson College which is likely where a significant number of families attend.  Information for this map came from Chris Honse, a former Jefferson County resident.
	 Lindbergh School District includes the communities of Crestwood & Sunset Hills and abuts Kirkwood and Webster Groves. Lindbergh Road is the main artery through the area. There has been a lot of political turmoil around the now demolished Crestwood Mall, which used to be a community focal point and source of revenue. Housing values in the Lindbergh School District are very inflated right now. There are a variety of different socio-economic neighborhoods - apartment complexes, single family homes and new, large single family construction. Most of the housing stock is mid 20th Century. 
	 People using HWY 13 will stop at these places for food or attractions
	 The economy of the Hermann area is largely tourist driven. Most of the money comes from outside of the area that is spent in this community at these businesses. Many of the jobs are subsequently service industry related. The highways and amtrak are vital to this area.
	 This area would all be considered "St. Louis," even though it is made up of many different municipalities. All Hospitals are along major highways, which means they are connected by a need for good public transportation and highways. 
	 The Chillicothe area has a thriving farm community, with an excellent public school system K-12 and a hospital. There is a lack of public transportation and a lack of good paying jobs with a lack of  a skilled labor force and a lack of affordable houseing.
	 Some families live in this area. Frequent police calls to some houses in the area. However, there is still a good deal of families and newer families (lower age) that live in this neighborhood. Starter homes/single child families. There are some retirees as well. 

Worley St park is nearby. If a community meeting was held -- it would be around trash pickup at Worley Street Park or new developments. 
	 Established neighborhood with some historic homes and some newly re-purposed (ie Norman School is now apts)
Majority white (67%), some black (17%) and hispanic (11%) families
More than 80% rental properties
Socially and politically active, community-oriented, strong neighborhood traditions 
	 The population was 525 at the 2010 census.
	 The POET plant buys grain (mostly corn, but some milo) from the regions farmers.  This community is affected by grain prices and the policies (tariffs) that affect food commodity trading with other countries. This is a farming community.
	 these are wealthier neighborhoods. faculty tend to live here. higher income.
	 The neighborhood is family oriented, the information provided under the "Evaluation" tab is accurate. I feel that single family homes are needed in this community and income based apartments are needed badly. Speed bumps are needed on John R Blvd, kids play in this community a lot and people speed coming down the heel that has been the results of multiple deaths and injuries. A caution sign would help also.
	 House Springs Elementary in the Northwest SD has 37% free and reduced lunches.  Of all the elementary schools in the NW SD this school is the most in a town closer to more businesses.  It may be a reason that this has a lower % reduced lunches.  Still, many families that live in this community will likely need help with healthcare, childcare, and maybe housing.  Accessible low cost groceries help families.  House Springs has a farmers market much of the year.  Most of the area are home owners and not renters. 

	 working class community with mix of owner and rental housing, Holland Elementary is the neighborhood school, Parkview is the High School, South Creek Greenways Trail goes right through this community - starting at McDaniel Park, good walkways to school because of the trails, quite a bit of multi-family housing, close to Mercy, Bass Pro, lots of people employed there, accessible, new walkway to downtown for biking - some major intersections and commuter routes, Sunshine Elementary expanding and will be the community tornado shelter, mix of commercial and residential 
	 The highlighted area includes the neighborhoods of Tower Grove Heights, Tower Grove East, Southwest Garden, Shaw and parts of broader Tower Grove South. Residents in these areas use Tower Grove Park and the MO Botanical Garden as their backyards - renters and homeowners, immigrants and people born in the US.  Accessibility and safety for pedestrian & bike traffic is important to most people. 
	 This community consists of a diverse group of middle class families. We all share the same shops/entertainment areas. The Blue Ridge/Stadium area could use extensive funding/development, much like what the Rock-Island trail has brought to the area. The community meetings for this area would consist of issue related to the Blue Ridge area traffic/public transportation, as well as issues with the stadiums.
	 65 and Glenstone are natural boundaries here - lots of commuters driving through because of proximity to 65 - mainly owner occupied, some rental housing with students - biking distance to MSU - 
	 The neighborhoods around Tower Grove Park share histories, shopping districts and regular cultural festivals.
	 Crestwood has 12,000 residents and is surrounded by larger municipalities like Webster Groves and Kirkwood and tiny ones like Marlborough and Grantwood Village. All of Crestwood is in the Lindbergh School District. The median household income is $54,000.00. It is definitely a town in transition as many senior citizens are selling, moving or dying. There are many young families with children. 
	 30% of kids at Crestwood Elementary get free and reduced lunches.
	 This community includes the Piedmont area and surrounding communities which share common interests of healthcare access and economy. Many folks in Piedmont work in Poplar Bluff and then return home to live in Piedmont. 
	 This rural area gets a boost from tourists going to Kimmswick and Mastadon State Historic Site.  Residents care about the environment and historical preservation.  Those who commute to Metro St. Louis on I-55 are concerned about traffic and highway funding. 
	 I appreciate this community as being walkable in the downtown area for my work life balance. From downtown being a good center of things it's easy to travel along Franklin to get to grocery stores, the highway and to see my mother.
	 The population was 522 at the 2010 census. 
	 This map is where I attend church, Dine out and walk in my community
	 This district houses the world famous Kauffman Center for Performing Arts, Record Bar, and may other spots for the arts. This area sits south of downtown and north of the Crossroads. Common interests would be transportation, investment into the community, and the arts, especially local art. 
	 Businesses here, some live & work in the same space.  Tourist dollars very important to this area but also all the activities wear on residents.  Older homes many historic in nature.  
	 Home of my best friends and exploring the town. Visiting parks, memorials, train tracks.
	 I-49 goes through the middle of the county and since there are many commuters to the larger cities (Lamar/Nevada) the infrastructure leading to the Interstate is vitally important and needs to be maintained at a high level. The largest employers are government/school districts, healthcare/assistance followed by retail. There are no charter schools, so a strong public education system is very important to this region. Access to quality healthcare is average for this type of region. There is a small hospital (25 beds) in Lamar but the population is aging and requires a variety of services that aren't always offered with residents driving to Jasper or Greene counties. The internet service is spotty and a strong broadband system is needed for school children as well as for the small business community. 
	 This elementary school has a free and reduced lunch rate of 39%.  It is in the Mehlville school district.  
	 The Rapid Response line often services community members in these areas. 

*Services include community support for visits from ICE, translation, and interpretation, know your rights information for engaging regularly with law enforcement like ICE. 

*Community members often have multi-generational households. 

*Community members often participate in programs and services provided by nearby community centers, organizations, and churches. 

*Some community members take the metro busses to the downtown ICE offices with no access to translation during the trip (unless provided with a ride-along person to help)
	 med  amt edu and income
	 An eruv is a symbolic enclosure that surrounds the Jewish community.
	 This area emcompasses a portion of the Springfield School District, a portion of Springfield and a surrounding rural area.  The school is in a more isolated area.  Residents have larger lots but most work in Springfield.
	 Francis Howell High School
	 Zone 2 Springfield; Robberson & Weller neighborhoods; a large number of renters, majority senior/elderly; Robberson Community School and Weller Elementary; Old Pepperdine School turned into O'Reilly Center for Hope; low-income; lack of affordable & safe housing; issues with vacant housing & unsafe housing; Pathways United Methodist Church provides resources to unsheltered; Safe to Sleep shelter for women; Robberson Community School is the only community school in Springfield; O'Reilly Center for Hope opened in 2020 and provides resources to unsheltered, at-risk housing, minoritized, under-resourced. 
	 Midwest University Community
	 Rough outline of municipality of Webster Groves.
	 This part of KC is a very low-income community and majority minority. There is much less investment from the city in this area and you can see it in how it starkly contrasts with other parts of the city. Other neighborhoods have nice parks and nice streets (even in the winter) while our parks and roads are not maintained. And our school district is really struggling. While our schools close down here, the city puts money towards building apartments that are pricing people out of the community. People here struggle high rent and landlords who refuse to make repairs and upkeep their properties. 
	 Gladstone is it's own community situated within the Northland. It was incorporated as it's own municipality in 1952 in order to stay white (imo). The population boomed up here after the 1968 Fair Housing Act and the riots that occurred in Kansas City. Before 1968, Black people in KC were redlined to the area between 6th and 31st, Troost and about Benton or Indiana Ave. Once they were able to move outside these boundaries, the Northland was shaped as a white flight neighborhood as white people left the city due to fears that housing values would go down as a result of integration. This history continues to shape this region as areas like Gladstone make efforts to assert themselves as separate from KC in both formal ways (having separate governing bodies) and in informal ways (for a long time people in this area would not go south of the river because they believed it was unsafe). 
	 This area consist of farmland that is mostly cattle and turkey CAFOs. Most of the residents work for the State and commute to Jefferson City.
	 Communities without easy access to polling places
	 Historic neighborhood
77% white professional (lawyers, MD, architects), family-oriented
Approx 100 homes, single family (per covenant)
Long term residents (30+ years)
Socially and politically active, community-oriented, strong neighborhood traditions with numerous annual events
	 The population was 253 at the 2010 census. 
	 Francis Howell North High School
	 The infrastructure is not only important for commuters (Clinton, and KC Metro) but, also for the traffic heading to/from Truman Reservoir and Lake of the Ozarks. The largest employers are utilities, farming, followed by manufacturing and retail. There are no charter schools, so a strong public education system is very important to this region. Access to quality healthcare is slightly above average for this type of region. There is a medium-sized hospital (56 beds) in Clinton with some specialty care offered. Residents drive to KC metro for some care. The internet service is spotty and a strong broadband system is needed for school children as well as for the small business and farming community. Crime rates both property and violent are well above average for this type of population. 
	 This community tends to be lower income. This area also houses a majority of our minority communities. This area of Springfield is in need of community development and upgraded infrastructure. There is less economic opportunity here and needs business development to bolster the community. 
	 The current streetcar travels from the River Market (North) to Union Station (South). In the future with the Main Street Extension, it will extend even more North and all the way down to the Plaza. The community around the streetcar line will change rapidly. Common interest are development, community investment, and expanded access to public transportation. 
	 This map includes restaurants, small grocery stores, elementary schools, and other places folks in Lake Lotawana visit on a regular basis. 
	 # small to medium middle class suburban communities who share a school district. There are few non-English speakers. There is diverse housing, from inexpensive to expensive. Some in the community, because of gentrification, are struggling to be able to afford to remain here. Many small businesses  and restaurants, a few larger stores. There is access to the MetroLink, but public transportation is spotty often causing long commutes and many transfers to get to outlying areas.
	 Blue collar workers, heavily Hispanic. Has expanded since 2010 Census. Centered around Rock Rd, extends to Hwy 170, down to Page. 
	 Wealthier section bordering tower grove park
	 Rural section of SE Franklin County, SW Jefferson County, & N Washington County. Mostly farms & owner-occupied single family homes. Mostly white Voting Age Population. Median income $40-45k. 
	 Very few businesses, older population, resources across river in Boonville.
	 Fayette and immediate area surrounding Fayette, including D.C. Rogers Lake, Ricketts Lake.

I am Fayette-bound most of the time due to personal choice.

My community includes many families who have lived here for generations; students/faculty/staff of Central Methodist University.  

I shop mostly in Fayette, my health care provider is in Fayette.

issues include growing meth-related criminality, lack of locally produced cultural events.
	 I purchase large farm equipment and get repairs at the Gallatin Truck and Tractor.

I also purchase farm fuel and supplies.

Jamesport is a Amish and Mennonite community where we buy some produce and hire some construction workers.

We also dine out and grocery shop on occasion.

I buy farm supplies and cattle feed in Trenton.

We also dine out and do some grocery shopping in Trenton.
	 This community has a lot of students.  It is a diverse community.  It tends to working to middle class.  There are a lot of young adults.  There are also a lot of international students who live around UMKC.
	 Kirkwood, Des Peres, Ballwin & Fenton are "Group A" cities. Currently, the revenues from a 1% sales tax in St. Louis County are distributed to unincorporated areas of the county as well as municipalities based on a formula. Group A cities retain the revenues generated within the city except for a portion which is shared with Group B cities. Group B cities, which include unincorporated areas of the county, pool their revenues and distributed them generally based on population.  Group A cities have been supportive of recent attempts to phase out the distribution formula so that cities imposing the additional tax retain all the revenues generated within the municipality.
	 Suburban households who are all within the same city and face the same city issues, including transportation, infrastructure, and education.
	 People that live in Webster Groves and parts of Shrewsbury, Rock Hill and Glendale.
	 This district houses Penn Valley Park, the National World War 1 Museum, and a big residential community as well. Common interest would be public safety, investment, development, and transportation. 
	 This community is on the far western and northern fringe of Columbia.  It is bordered on the east by L.A. Nickell Golf Course and Cosmo Park and Route E (Stadium Blvd.).  Along Stadium are some light industries and small businesses.  Boone Quarry occasionally blasts (a few times a month) which shakes the nearby houses.  Small businesses along Stadium Blvd (Route E) include a hair salon, a Break Time, a Knights of Columbus hall, an Eagles hall, and others.  Columbia Independent School is in this area.  The population consists of a mixture of home owners and renters.   Monterey Hills is a subdivision of approx. 124 homes including couples with school age children, retirees, and professionals.  Many people in the area have affiliations with the construction trade, HVAC, University of Missouri, and state or local government.  Several homes in the area have solar arrays and there is increasing interest in equipping houses with solar arrays.  The residents are currently part of a state legislative district which includes Rocheport and more rural areas to the north of Columbia.  Residents of Columbia tend to favor gun safety measures.  They also greatly appreciate Columbia's trail system and access to non-motorized transportation.  This area is bounded on the south by I-70.  Traffic noise from I-70 is considered a problem to some who live in this area.  #mizzou #como 
	 because they have combined two townships together we cannot determine the population for Hayti heights.
it is inaccurate  because its combining Hayti and Hayti height.
	 Mixture of single family homes. East north street is old industrial area. Still has Adient manufacturing.
	 A naturally occurring retirement community as recognized by the federal government composed of 41% renters. The district also has a substantial portion of (around 10% each) Blacks and Asian Americans. Interests include accessibility to medical services, healthcare, transportation.
	 A high poverty, high rental neighborhood which also reflects high crime and unhoused folded around Grant Beach Park bordered by Hwy 13 Kansas Expwy, Boonville Ave, Commercial St., and Chestnut Expwy. Weaver Elementary, Pipkin Middle. The Fairbanks provides some services to the low income residents. 
	 These neighborhoods border the main Missouri State University campus and extend to Sunshine, Jefferson, Elm and Fremont. Many of these areas have active and engaged
neighborhood associations. Home values range from $100,000 to $500,000. Residents include many college-educated professionals and working-class homeowners and renters, co-existing with 20,000+ students.

These residents share commitments to preserving the multicultural diversity of the citizenry. They also value the area’s amenities including Phelps Grove Park, Springfield Art Museum, Water Wise Garden, and the University itself.

Issues of concern they need political representation for: 
•	negotiations to manage the university’s growth and incursion into neighborhoods; 
•	negotiations to manage the city’s expansion of the museum and parks; 
•	crime/safety; 
•	congestion; 
•	property values; 
•	and expanding commercial development.

	 Currently served by three different fire districts, in discussions about whether this continues in future
	 This community map shows where I spend a majority of my time on an average day. Includes where I live, work, and hang out. 
	 The rural farming people of this community are burdened with the smell of this operation.  A CAFO brings some jobs but the  side effects on the environment (air and water) include potential contamination of public and private property resources.  Assistance with the map from Kenneth Dunlap.
	 Popular Tourist sport near Springfield
	 The Northfork River and the Bryant Creek Watersheds are side by side and much the same in area. In our Karst topography, the Bryant is a losing stream, while the Northfork is fed by many springs. There are multiple outfitters, trout fishing, campgrounds, hiking and horseback trails including the Ozark Trail. In fall and spring,  hunters fill the woods.
	 Suburban unincorporated areas, without city services
	 The highlighted area depicts the disparity between where we live plush with shopping, hospitals, art galleries, restaurants, grocery stores, post offices, streets free of trash and security  while blocks away to the east and north there is a desert plagued with lack of services leading to poor health and opportunity creating increasing drug addiction and crime attempting to self medicate for the lack ofopportunities. 
	 These are neighborhoods that are core middle class professional live in. Some parts have a large community of children/school aged adolescents. Many of the people that live in this area are young adults that have recently graduated college or are in the early years of their careers. This area is not composed of mainly working class young adults but adults that work in corporate or professional fields. They are also mainly renters since there aren't as many single family homes in this area. There are mainly apartment complexes and other available rentals #mojwj
	 The hills of Jefferson County hide several small wineries that could make a nice day trip.  This might be an economic driver in the community.  The people in this community enjoy local wines and brews.  Map assistance from Jess Sherpherd.
	 New Amazon Distribution Center
	 simular communtity. more home owners. 
	 A heavily immigrant and Asian American area with key ethnic grocery stores and restaurants that are ethnic hubs. Includes the Islamic Center. Concerned about traffic and education. 
	 area suburban and rural areas with transportation needds
	 The Independence community goes beyond the historic Independence Square, with communities extending out towards major highways, most people within these areas rely on nearby local businesses. Concerns include better schools, public transportation, better roads and creating businesses that help out working class families.
	 Communities not served by sanitary sewer
	 Good neighborhood with friendly people. There is a mix of people who have lived here for 10+ years as well as people who are new to the neighborhood. It's diverse with people of different ages, and racial and ethnic backgrounds. 
	 1. Crumbling Infrasture 
a.  water drainage a huge concern in the NW part of the community close to the old airbase
b.  internet service is not available to all residents who live just outside the city
2. Commuting Community
3.  Rising Crime
4. Lack of Affordable Housing (rental and purchase) 
5. Need for strong and financed public education  
6. Growing Diversity

	 areas where SBU professors live
	 Places I drive to church, doctors, see friends, shop, and go out to eat. 
	 I live in Jackson Township in northwestern Livingston County.
This area is comprised of mainly of farmiong families in single family dwellings.

Deteriorating blacktop roads such as highways A, U, W and Y.

Bad internet service is another issue of concern. Major gaps in access especially along Hwy A.

Phone service needs improvement as well.

	 church community. school district. local restaurants
	 Community jobs for high school graduates to keep students in their home areas.
	 Families with children in the City of St. Louis deal with an ever shrinking pot of money for public schools. TIFs and other incentives to businesses take property taxes out of the tax base, which negatively impacts public school funding. St. Louis Public Schools and publicly-funded charter schools often compete for students, money and staff. This leads to a disjointed education system and pits families and school systems against one another for limited resources, while many in the MO Legislature want to dismantle public school systems all together.
	 Communities without easy access to Public Parks
	 Armstrong is comprised mainly of farmers in single family dwellings.

I live just outside of Armstrong and our common interests are agriculture issues, roads, poor internet issues.

I shop in Fayette which is a traditional small rural town.
This is a college town as well with a significant community of students and faculty.
A big concern is a lack of small businesses and the town square is deteriorating.
City governance is a major concern and economic development.
There are big challenges related to the school system.
Crumbling infrastructure is also a major concern.

I work and get my healthcare services in Columbia . 

	 St. Charles Community College
	 These census blocks do not accurately represent this community. Camdenton, the town, is more representative of the community then the large outer area. It is a tight knit community, centered around the high school. The concerns in this community are the newer highways that have been build around the cities.  
	 Region surrounding Missouri S&T and downtown Rolla where the hub of economic activity is and students gather
	 As of the 2010 census, the city had a total population of 29,070
	 Community including Kansas City west-side neighborhoods south of Brush Creek, West of Holmes, East of State Line and North of I-435. Includes home associations associated with those neighborhoods; principally in the KC School District and wholly within the city of Kansas City. Includes important commercial zones along Ward Parkway, State Line and I-435.
	 This is a community of families who care about their neighborhood (several neighborhood associations),  education and schools, hospitals and health care. The community is involved in government at the local, state, and federal levels and votes at a high rate.
	 This community consists of elderly folks and young families. The community is transition as original residents are moving out or passing away, and more young families are moving in.

The biggest issue that needs to be addressed in this community is public safety. 
	 The people in these areas are likely to go to St Joe for groceries and shopping. I-29 goes straight through these counties and is near the urban clusters of Mound City, Oregon, and Savannah, so the people will jump on the highway to go grocery shopping.  The people in Union Star will jump on 169 to get to St Joe. The people in Mound City will likely go to Savannah for small-town entertainment. 
	 People living in California and the surrounding area have access to local grocery stores, attend church in town, and have many other local resources. However, many families have 1 or more members commuting to Jefferson City and (more rarely) Columbia for work. Often, these positions include state government positions. Healthcare is also primarily sourced in Jefferson City and/or Columbia due to a shortage in Moniteau Co. This makes healthcare access and highway infrastructure two key issues for the California community. 
	 Wentzville Holt High School 
	 This community shares high density neighborhoods with a mix of rental and owner-occupied housing stock.  Heavy reliance on bus transportation and walking. Most folks leave the neighborhood to work. Large number of refugees and immigrants. Common grocery stores and worship places. The map north boundaries should be I-64. The census tract lines would not allow me to indicate this.
	 There are residential areas closer to the city limits of Columbia, some of which are within the city boundaries. Farther out are larger tracts of farmland. Most of the area is served by the Columbia Public School system. There is no public transit that extends to this area.
	 This area is primarily a rural area  with  a small portion within city limits of Springfield.  Pleasant View Elementary School, a  public school in the Springfield School District  is located in Senate District 20 while the majority of Springfield public schools are in Senate District 30.  
	 Gotsch intermediate school has about 30% of students that qualify for free and reduced lunches.  Many of these families will need extra resources to be able to care for their families.
	 Newer houses and buildings
	 This intersection gets a lot of traffic, both east-west truck traffic and people from St. Louis going to the capitol in Jefferson City. A new I-70 exit was recently built near an outlet mall that's on its last legs.  Several gas stations support the tax base of this area. 
	 This cattle pasture land. Homes are spread miles apart. Must go to Iberia or Osage Beach for groceries. Most if not all residents are Evangelical Christians.
	 Centered on the square and near-by neighborhoods. Mixture of people who have lived here for multiple generations and new people moving in. The Square has been getting some refurbishing with new businesses and that is bringing new people into the area. For those of us who grew up out here, we remember when the majority storefronts out here were empty. It's good to see businesses in the historic buildings so that they are taken care of and not falling into disrepair, but some of them are too pricey for the people who live out here. 

There seems to be an even split of people who work in the area on the Square and up Noland and people who commute into downtown KC or Kansas.  

Since Independence is an older community (compared to other parts of the metro), roads, bridges, and buildings fall into disrepair. 

	 New grocery stores  along Manchester Rd  are helping make up for declining sales in the mall. SD 15 takes an odd square out of SD24 north of Manchester. Parents appreciate high quality public schools but many still pay to send students to  private or parochial school. Administrators will soon be moving from North Kirkwood Middle School to Meacham Park, closer to Nipher Middle School, the district's other junior high.  
	 A group of mostly college area, with a lot of apartments and small businesses. Neighborhood vibe when there are many apartment groups/rented houses. Most people dont go out too far since there is a lot of nearby chains/businesses. 
	 This is a community centered around Tower Grove Park and the South Grand Business district. People here use the park regularly and many are younger families. Most would utilize the South Grand business district for meals.  
	 common sports regions for schools as well as work travel and shopping
	 This is rural areas and land owners that are directly affected by the city of West Plains.
	 Murphy Elementary in the Northwest SD has nearly 45% free and reduced lunches.   Many families that live in this community will likely need help with healthcare, childcare, and maybe housing.  Accessible low cost groceries would be needed or perhaps many have vegetable gardens to help get healthy food.  Most of the area are home owners and not renters. 
	 The green side of town can be considered the West end of town and the developing side of the city. In the last 5 years Jefferson City built a second high school that is expanding every year and is drawing in new attendees and residents to the area. 

As well new businesses typically fill in this part of the city so the new economic center has become the West side of Jefferson City. 
	 Communities without police stations nearby. The St. Charles County Police Department provides service to unincorporated St. Charles County and works closely with local municipal police to monitor the county’s eight patrol zones. The division also provides contract patrols in the cities of Augusta, Weldon Springs Heights, St. Paul, Flint Hill, Portage De Sioux, New Melle, and West Alton. Additionally, a full-time officer is dedicated to patrol services in the municipalities of Dardenne Praire and Weldon Spring.
	 Second largest city in Howard Co.  More cohesive in alike residents.  Public as well as parochial school.  Very oriented to surrounding farm land.  
	 This is the neighborhoods generally north of Olive Blvd in University City - the dividing line of Olive Boulevard has traditionally segregated between the black neighborhoods and the white neighborhoods, and between the lower socioeconomic classes and the more affluent. In particular, housing values drop sharply when you go north of Olive even for homes very similar to those south of Olive. The 3rd Ward Community shares an interest in bringing resources to invest in this part of U City to increase housing values, preserve generational wealth, and increase opportunities for working families to live in mixed-race and socioeconomically diverse neighborhood.
	 This area has a high concentration of seniors and those with disabilities.  These individuals are in need of supports and services to allow them to live independently.  Some of forced to live in nursing homes due to lack of access to what they need.  This area also involves youth with disabilities and parents who are struggling to find supports so that their children can transition into the community to either go to school or find a job and live on their own.  
	 Live in the country where farms predominate northeast of Chillicothe on LIV 228.

Shop, do other business and attend church in downtown Chillicothe.

Farming issue would be the main topic of conversation where they live. Talking about crop prospects. 

In downtown Chillicothe. Concerns about Hedrick Medical Center's ability to deliver quality care is a big concern. Most citizens will take serious issues to Kansas City medical system.
	 This is the area I feel part of and feel committed to - esp. wanting to work for good schools, a good economy for all, quality healthcare for all, good museums and cultural access and quality food. 
	 I-49 goes through the middle of the county and since there are many commuters (going to jobs in Butler, Rich Hill, or North into Cass County) the infrastructure leading to the Interstate is vitally important and needs to be maintained at a high level. The largest local employers are government/utilities and school districts. There are no charter schools, so a strong public education system is very important to this region. Access to quality healthcare is average for this type of region. There is a small hospital (60 beds) in Butler but the population is aging and requires a variety of services that aren't always offered with residents driving to KC. The internet service is spotty and a strong broadband system is needed for school children as well as for the small business community. 
	 Webster Groves School District in St. Louis County.  High percent of families send their children to the public school.  The community also shares critical infrastructure including Highway 44 and major arterials including Brentwood Blvd, Watson, and Big Bend Blvd.
	 Westport is the number one spot and area for nightlife here in Kansas City. There is also a vibrant community here in Westport as well. Common interests would be the houseless population, nigh life, and public safety. Very diverse community as well. 
	 This plant makes soybean oil.   It draws from farmers from far away (Booneville, Wentzville, Shelbina) because they pay prices above the grain elevator.  This map made with the assistance of Kenneth Dunlap.
	 Even though people in this area live in different municipalities, they all consider themselves St. Louisans and use common business districts and major routes, including 44, Manchester Road (100) and Watson/Chippewa (366). Most live in suburban neighborhoods with strong schools (public and parochial) and have a lot of community pride. 
	 Residents are concerned about traffic on Hwy 61 (Avenue of the Saints connecting St. Louis and St. Paul, MN).  Residents are conservative and mask-averse.  Troy is the county seat for Lincoln County. Mercy Hospital Lincoln serves this area. The main industry is  agriculture.  
	 Cedar Springs Elementary in the Northwest SD has 31% free and reduced lunches.  Many families that live in this community will likely need help with healthcare, childcare, and maybe housing.  Accessible low cost groceries would be needed or perhaps many have vegetable gardens to help get healthy food.  Most of the area are home owners and not renters.  This elementary school has the lowest % of free and reduced lunches in the SD.  Assistance with this map came from Peggy Robb.

	 I live in Miner MO.  I understand that there are 3% African Americans which make up 11.5% of Missourians.  There are 91% White citizens which make up 85% of Missourians and 4.1% Hispanics which make up 3.5% of Missourians.  

Thank you for considering this information.
	 Major Employment source due to many conventions being hosted here due to it's central location in Missouri
	 This elementary school in the Fox school district has a 52% free and reduced lunch rate.  They are mostly homeowners , not renters, who are going to need some assistance to meet their needs.
	 I live on the westend of sikeston, but under the "Evaluation" tab it shows the annual income is 50k-60k and this is not reflective of my community at all. It is more reflective of the East side communities of sikeston which is also highlighted in my district. I feel our community need more low income housing and mulit unit homes consisting of 3br and 4br homes. 
	 Cape Girardeau is the biggest city in southeast MO.  Because it has a couple of hospitals, Cape is home to the medical service provider for a big area - the whole bootheel.  Cape Girardeau is also home to a university - Southeast MO University.   There is a single high school for this community.
	 The roads are bad 
No businesses 
Homes are ran down 
Dogs are running wild
	 Loose Park is important, vital, and well used by everyone in the surrounding area. Common interests are park quality, public safety, and an active lifestyle. Lots of Kansas Citians use bikes and are moving away from owning a car. 
	 Almost all homeowners, largely white and affluent. Contains Tilles Park which is a popular gathering spot. Majority of this is the southern part of Ladue Schools. Concerned about education and taxes. 
	 The component parts of the Kansas City metropolitan area share cultural and economic interests. These counties represent the Missouri part of the Kansas City Area Transportation Authority, representing a recognition on the ground that they have an interest in cooperation and joint economic development.
	 This is the historic heart of Springfield. It encompasses 3 of our universities - Drury, OTC, and MSU, along with the downtown region with Park Central Square, a good portion of the "Route 66", and the Springfield Art Museum. People who live, go to school, and work in this area tend to be more progressive, inclusive, and diverse.
	 Hayti Heights population number is not accurate most of the population is is African american not white
	 I moved here recently and am trying to settle in. Being able to work from home and living near both the highway and downtown is allowing me to settle in. I enjoy my place in town being able to travel to KC pretty well and be in a comfortable neighborhood. 
	 3/4 Homeowners, rough boundary of Parkway Schools. about 1/11 residents are Asian American. Concerned about schools and taxes. 
	 With the recent closure of Pinnacle Health in Boonville, Fitzgibbon Hospital in Marshall, MO became one of the only full-service surgical hospitals in Mid-Missouri. Fitzgibbon routinely treats patients from 7 surrounding counties. Fitzgibbon has one of the only cancer treatment centers, ambulatory care units and active OB/GYN beds for pregnant women in mid-Missouri. Residents living in north Pettis county--particularly those closest to Marshall Junction (I-70 and 65) frequent Fitzgibbon over Bothwell. With the closure of Booneville's hospital, patients from Cooper and Howard Counties now frequent Fitzgibbon more regularly--Fitzgibbon even has a clinic in Fayette. North of Marshall, there are far fewer options, which attracts patients from Chariton and Carroll Counties.

The difficulty for patients living within the green zone is the 20-50 miles some of them must travel to reach their nearest hospital. Poor infrastructure, such as bad roads and bridges limits their ability to reach the hospital. Many seniors live in the most remote rural areas and are not able to make routine visits to the doctor--and when an ambulance is called it can take half an hour or more for it or a firetruck to arrive. Moreover, the lack of internet makes rural telehealth visits nearly impossible. 
	 Residents of this community enjoy access to nearby trails and parks, including Bonnie View Nature Sanctuary and MKT Trail to the south.  Many people in this community have affiliations to the University of Missouri, the Columbia public schools, and healthcare institutions such as Boone Hospital or MU Healthcare.  The area has a community garden.  People in this area enjoy using bicycles for commuting and recreation.  
	 This community is more suburban than communities south of I-44. This community works within Springfield but tends to be mostly home owners and higher income renters. 
	 Where the peeps begin to blend. When you drive through main street, the people that walk stand out to you. The buildings are elegant but show signs of wear, which makes you think they're not being maintained well. Mainly blacks waiting at bus stops, except for in the power and light, where things feel very segregated, except for the few that wonder in, and are watched by police and the rich alike. The business district is starkly different than the river market, where walkability changes dramatically. The lack of walkability only segregates our community from those who can't afford transportation. In the future I look forward, and fully support the free street car as a minimum service that we can provide for our community.
	 Single mothers, young kids, pre-K-12. Most likely on support, including Salvation Army and the food bank. Also often asking for help on Facebook.
	 North Columbia an Downtown

North Columbia specifically North Creasy Springs Rd. is a working class neighborhood. Suburban bedroom type neighborhood

Shared interests are infrastructure like road and street maintenance and local Columbia   issues like increasing crime and management in the Columbia Hickman school district.

Downtown is the main area where I shop and go for entertainment and social events.

Rising crime is also an issue of concern in this area of the community
	 Mixture of homes from 1960s to 1908. Several old Victorians. This is old Eldon. Took a tough blow from the tornado from 2 years ago. Area includes a community pool, Main street, banks, nursing homes and the future section of the Rock Island bike trail. Several churches, playgrounds and banks. Also has city hall, fire dept and police department. Roads and sewers in bad shape.  
	 small village with nothing to do  the population is mostly black 
	 This community includes land owners who have property along sections of  the Current, Jack's Fork, and Eleven Point Riverways. They share common issues related to land ownership and regulations by the Mo Department of Conservation, the National Park Service, and the US Forest Service. This community is also impacted by Tourism. 
	 Crystal, MO is right against the Mississippi River.   It is a small town with only a single high school.  It is likely to have flooding issues within its boundaries.  Crystal City is mostly in Senate District 22, but a small portion is in Dist 3. Assistance with this map came from Jess Shepherd.

	 This is map of the places in my life that are meaningful to me.
	 These are the people who are affected by the level of school funding in the West Plains R7 school district. People don't want to approve a local tax increase for the school district because of their economic circumstances. This is the largest population grouping in the county.  The income is relatively high for the area.
	 My community districting is very vast in my area. It reflects the community I live in but what about those like myself who are not in the same income bracket as others in my community. It reaches to those higher end communities with the better housing and higher mortgages.

So when funding hits our community, who will actually benefit from it?

	 This is the Northern part of Cape Girardeau, which is also the area that is not as diverse, prodomentaly homeowners, and more middle class/upper class than the other parts of Cape. The infrastructure on this side of town is not too bad, and the businesses here are more expensive. The area in the middle is nicknamed "Apartment Land" and it does not fit into the demographics around it. Culturally, that census block mirrors the Downtown Cape map. 
	 This military base contributes a lot economically to the local area; especially in terms of employment and housing.
	  working class families and MU students
	 This tight knit community is like "suburbia in the City." There are lots of block parties, neighbors borrowing sugar, talking over the fence. Many churches and schools are incorporated into the neighborhood, with Francis Park at the Center. On the northern end, there are many stores, including Target and Schnucks used by most in the neighborhood. Most people own their homes. 
	 This is the area of the city of Sullivan and the surrounding areas that are centered around Sullivan High School. The high school services 3 k-8 schools in the area. People in this area also often interact with organizations and businesses in the city of Sullivan. This creates common interests in terms of education policy, city infrastructure, and economic development. The area is primarily composed of long term farmers and property owners, and also commuters to the city of St. Louis. 
